
    

**Transcribers Note:**

Inconsistent hyphenation and spelling in the original document have been
preserved. Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

On page 117, "Mrs. Thipps's forehead" should possibly be "Mr. Thipps's
forehead."

#  Whose Body?

AS MY WHIMSY TAKES ME

Whose Body?

DOROTHY L. SAYERS

_A Lord Peter Wimsey Novel_

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS

WHOSE BODY?  
_Copyright, 1923, by Dorothy Sayers_  
_Printed in the United States of America_  
_All rights in this book are reserved._  
_No part of the book may be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever
without written permission except in the case of brief quotations embodied in
critical articles and reviews. For information address Harper & Brothers 49
East 33rd Street, New York 16, N. Y._

_The Singular Adventure of the_  
_Man with the Golden Pince-Nez_

_To M. J._

_Dear Jim_ :

_This book is your fault. If it had not been for your brutal insistence, Lord
Peter would never have staggered through to the end of this enquiry. Pray
consider that he thanks you with his accustomed suavity._

_Yours ever,_  
_D. L. S._

9

##  CHAPTER I

Oh, damn! said Lord Peter Wimsey at Piccadilly Circus. Hi, driver!

The taxi man, irritated at receiving this appeal while negotiating the
intricacies of turning into Lower Regent Street across the route of a 19 bus,
a 38-B and a bicycle, bent an unwilling ear.

Ive left the catalogue behind, said Lord Peter deprecatingly. Uncommonly
careless of me. Dyou mind puttin back to where we came from?

To the Savile Club, sir?

No110 Piccadillyjust beyondthank you.

Thought you was in a hurry, said the man, overcome with a sense of injury.

Im afraid its an awkward place to turn in, said Lord Peter, answering the
thought rather than the words. His long, amiable face looked as if it had
generated spontaneously from his top hat, as white maggots breed from
Gorgonzola.

The taxi, under the severe eye of a policeman, revolved by slow jerks, with a
noise like the grinding of teeth.

The block of new, perfect and expensive flats in which Lord Peter dwelt upon
the second floor, stood directly opposite the Green Park, in a spot for many
years occupied by the skeleton of a frustrate commercial enterprise. As Lord
Peter let himself in he 10 heard his mans voice in the library, uplifted in
that throttled stridency peculiar to well-trained persons using the telephone.

I believe thats his lordship just coming in againif your Grace would kindly
hold the line a moment.

What is it, Bunter?

Her Grace has just called up from Denver, my lord. I was just saying your
lordship had gone to the sale when I heard your lordships latchkey.

Thanks, said Lord Peter; and you might find me my catalogue, would you? I
think I must have left it in my bedroom, or on the desk.

He sat down to the telephone with an air of leisurely courtesy, as though it
were an acquaintance dropped in for a chat.

Hullo, Motherthat you?

Oh, there you are, dear, replied the voice of the Dowager Duchess. I was
afraid Id just missed you.

Well, you had, as a matter of fact. Id just started off to Brockleburys
sale to pick up a book or two, but I had to come back for the catalogue.
Whats up?

Such a quaint thing, said the Duchess. I thought Id tell you. You know
little Mr. Thipps?

Thipps? said Lord Peter. Thipps? Oh, yes, the little architect man whos
doing the church roof. Yes. What about him?

Mrs. Throgmortons just been in, in quite a state of mind.

Sorry, Mother, I cant hear. Mrs. Who?

ThrogmortonThrogmortonthe vicars wife. 11

Oh, Throgmorton, yes?

Mr. Thipps rang them up this morning. It was his day to come down, you know.

Yes?

He rang them up to say he couldnt. He was so upset, poor little man. Hed
found a dead body in his bath.

Sorry, Mother, I cant hear; found what, where?

A dead body, dear, in his bath.

What?no, no, we havent finished. Please dont cut us off. Hullo! Hullo! Is
that you, Mother? Hullo!Mother!Oh, yessorry, the girl was trying to cut us
off. What sort of body?

A dead man, dear, with nothing on but a pair of pince-nez. Mrs. Throgmorton
positively blushed when she was telling me. Im afraid people do get a little
narrow-minded in country vicarages.

Well, it sounds a bit unusual. Was it anybody he knew?

No, dear, I dont think so, but, of course, he couldnt give her many
details. She said he sounded quite distracted. Hes such a respectable little
manand having the police in the house and so on, really worried him.

Poor little Thipps! Uncommonly awkward for him. Lets see, he lives in
Battersea, doesnt he?

Yes, dear; 59, Queen Caroline Mansions; opposite the Park. That big block
just round the corner from the Hospital. I thought perhaps youd like to run
round and see him and ask if theres anything we can do. I always thought him
a nice little man. 12

Oh, quite, said Lord Peter, grinning at the telephone. The Duchess was
always of the greatest assistance to his hobby of criminal investigation,
though she never alluded to it, and maintained a polite fiction of its non-
existence.

What time did it happen, Mother?

I think he found it early this morning, but, of course, he didnt think of
telling the Throgmortons just at first. She came up to me just before lunchso
tiresome, I had to ask her to stay. Fortunately, I was alone. I dont mind
being bored myself, but I hate having my guests bored.

Poor old Mother! Well, thanks awfully for tellin me. I think Ill send
Bunter to the sale and toddle round to Battersea now an try and console the
poor little beast. So-long.

Good-bye, dear.

Bunter!

Yes, my lord.

Her Grace tells me that a respectable Battersea architect has discovered a
dead man in his bath.

Indeed, my lord? Thats very gratifying.

Very, Bunter. Your choice of words is unerring. I wish Eton and Balliol had
done as much for me. Have you found the catalogue?

Here it is, my lord.

Thanks. I am going to Battersea at once. I want you to attend the sale for
me. Dont lose timeI dont want to miss the Folio Dante[A] nor the de 13
Voraginehere you aresee? Golden LegendWynkyn de Worde, 1493got
that?and, I say, make a special effort for the Caxton folio of the Four Sons
of Aymonits the 1489 folio and unique. Look! Ive marked the lots I want,
and put my outside offer against each. Do your best for me. I shall be back to
dinner.

Very good, my lord.

Take my cab and tell him to hurry. He may for you; he doesnt like me very
much. Can I, said Lord Peter, looking at himself in the eighteenth-century
mirror over the mantelpiece, can I have the heart to fluster the flustered
Thipps furtherthats very difficult to say quicklyby appearing in a top-hat
and frock-coat? I think not. Ten to one he will overlook my trousers and
mistake me for the undertaker. A grey suit, I fancy, neat but not gaudy, with
a hat to tone, suits my other self better. Exit the amateur of first editions;
new motive introduced by solo bassoon; enter Sherlock Holmes, disguised as a
walking gentleman. There goes Bunter. Invaluable fellownever offers to do his
job when youve told him to do somethin else. Hope he doesnt miss the Four
Sons of Aymon. Still, there _is_ another copy of thatin the Vatican.[B] It
might become available, you never know 14 if the Church of Rome went to pot
or Switzerland invaded Italywhereas a strange corpse doesnt turn up in a
suburban bathroom more than once in a lifetimeat least, I should think notat
any rate, the number of times its happened, _with_ a pince-nez, might be
counted on the fingers of one hand, I imagine. Dear me! its a dreadful
mistake to ride two hobbies at once.

He had drifted across the passage into his bedroom, and was changing with a
rapidity one might not have expected from a man of his mannerisms. He selected
a dark-green tie to match his socks and tied it accurately without hesitation
or the slightest compression of his lips; substituted a pair of brown shoes
for his black ones, slipped a monocle into a breast pocket, and took up a
beautiful Malacca walking-stick with a heavy silver knob.

Thats all, I think, he murmured to himself. StayI may as well have
youyou may come in usefulone never knows. He added a flat silver matchbox
to his equipment, glanced at his watch, and seeing that it was already a
quarter to three, ran briskly downstairs, and, hailing a taxi, was carried to
Battersea Park.

Mr. Alfred Thipps was a small, nervous man, whose flaxen hair was beginning to
abandon the unequal struggle with destiny. One might say that his only really
marked feature was a large bruise over the left eyebrow, which gave him a
faintly dissipated air incongruous with the rest of his appearance. Almost in
15 the same breath with his first greeting, he made a self-conscious apology
for it, murmuring something about having run against the dining-room door in
the dark. He was touched almost to tears by Lord Peters thoughtfulness and
condescension in calling.

Im sure its most kind of your lordship, he repeated for the dozenth time,
rapidly blinking his weak little eyelids. I appreciate it very deeply, very
deeply, indeed, and so would Mother, only shes so deaf, I dont like to
trouble you with making her understand. Its been very hard all day, he
added, with the policemen in the house and all this commotion. Its what
Mother and me have never been used to, always living very retired, and its
most distressing to a man of regular habits, my lord, and reely, Im almost
thankful Mother doesnt understand, for Im sure it would worry her terribly
if she was to know about it. She was upset at first, but shes made up some
idea of her own about it now, and Im sure its all for the best.

The old lady who sat knitting by the fire nodded grimly in response to a look
from her son.

I always said as you ought to complain about that bath, Alfred, she said
suddenly, in the high, piping voice peculiar to the deaf, and its to be
oped the landlordll see about it now; not but what I think you might have
managed without having the police in, but there! you always were one to make a
fuss about a little thing, from chicken-pox up.

There now, said Mr. Thipps apologetically, you see how it is. Not but what
its just as well shes settled 16 on that, because she understands weve
locked up the bathroom and dont try to go in there. But its been a terrible
shock to me, sirmy lord, I should say, but there! my nerves are all to
pieces. Such a thing has never appenedhappened to me in all my born days.
Such a state I was in this morningI didnt know if I was on my head or my
heelsI reely didnt, and my heart not being too strong, I hardly knew how to
get out of that horrid room and telephone for the police. Its affected me,
sir, its affected me, it reely hasI couldnt touch a bit of breakfast, nor
lunch neither, and what with telephoning and putting off clients and
interviewing people all morning, Ive hardly known what to do with myself.

Im sure it must have been uncommonly distressin, said Lord Peter,
sympathetically, especially comin like that before breakfast. Hate anything
tiresome happenin before breakfast. Takes a man at such a confounded
disadvantage, what?

Thats just it, thats just it, said Mr. Thipps, eagerly. When I saw that
dreadful thing lying there in my bath, mother-naked, too, except for a pair of
eyeglasses, I assure you, my lord, it regularly turned my stomach, if youll
excuse the expression. Im not very strong, sir, and I get that sinking
feeling sometimes in the morning, and what with one thing and another I
adhad to send the girl for a stiff brandy, or I dont know _what_ mightnt
have happened. I felt so queer, though Im anything but partial to spirits as
a rule. Still, I make it a rule never to be without brandy in the house, in
case of emergency, you know? 17

Very wise of you, said Lord Peter, cheerfully. Youre a very far-seein
man, Mr. Thipps. Wonderful what a little nipll do in case of need, and the
less youre used to it the more good it does you. Hope your girl is a sensible
young woman, what? Nuisance to have women faintin and shriekin all over the
place.

Oh, Gladys is a good girl, said Mr. Thipps, very reasonable indeed. She was
shocked, of course; thats very understandable. I was shocked myself, and it
wouldnt be proper in a young woman not to be shocked under the circumstances,
but she is reely a helpful, energetic girl in a crisis, if you understand me.
I consider myself very fortunate these days to have got a good, decent girl to
do for me and Mother, even though she is a bit careless and forgetful about
little things, but thats only natural. She was very sorry indeed about having
left the bathroom window open, she reely was, and though I was angry at first,
seeing whats come of it, it wasnt anything to speak of, not in the ordinary
way, as you might say. Girls will forget things, you know, my lord, and reely
she was so distressed I didnt like to say too much to her. All I said was:
It might have been burglars, I said, remember that, next time you leave a
window open all night; this time it was a dead man, I said, and thats
unpleasant enough, but next time it might be burglars, I said, and all of us
murdered in our beds. But the police-inspectorInspector Sugg, they called
him, from the Yardhe was very sharp with her, poor girl. Quite frightened
her, and made her think 18 he suspected her of something, though what good a
body could be to her, poor girl, I cant imagine, and so I told the Inspector.
He was quite rude to me, my lordI may say I didnt like his manner at all.
If youve got anything definite to accuse Gladys or me of, Inspector, I said
to him, bring it forward, thats what you have to do, I said, but Ive yet
to learn that youre paid to be rude to a gentleman in his own ousehouse.
Reely, said Mr. Thipps, growing quite pink on the top of his head, he
regularly roused me, regularly roused me, my lord, and Im a mild man as a
rule.

Sugg all over, said Lord Peter. I know him. When he dont know what else to
say, hes rude. Stands to reason you and the girl wouldnt go collectin
bodies. Whod want to saddle himself with a body? Difficultys usually to get
rid of em. Have you got rid of this one yet, by the way?

Its still in the bathroom, said Mr. Thipps. Inspector Sugg said nothing
was to be touched till his men came in to move it. Im expecting them at any
time. If it would interest your lordship to have a look at it

Thanks awfully, said Lord Peter. Id like to very much, if Im not puttin
you out.

Not at all, said Mr. Thipps. His manner as he led the way along the passage
convinced Lord Peter of two thingsfirst, that, gruesome as his exhibit was,
he rejoiced in the importance it reflected upon himself and his flat, and
secondly, that Inspector Sugg had forbidden him to exhibit it to anyone. The
latter 19 supposition was confirmed by the action of Mr. Thipps, who stopped
to fetch the door-key from his bedroom, saying that the police had the other,
but that he made it a rule to have two keys to every door, in case of
accident.

The bathroom was in no way remarkable. It was long and narrow, the window
being exactly over the head of the bath. The panes were of frosted glass; the
frame wide enough to admit a mans body. Lord Peter stepped rapidly across to
it, opened it and looked out.

The flat was the top one of the building and situated about the middle of the
block. The bathroom window looked out upon the back-yards of the flats, which
were occupied by various small outbuildings, coal-holes, garages, and the
like. Beyond these were the back gardens of a parallel line of houses. On the
right rose the extensive edifice of St. Lukes Hospital, Battersea, with its
grounds, and, connected with it by a covered way, the residence of the famous
surgeon, Sir Julian Freke, who directed the surgical side of the great new
hospital, and was, in addition, known in Harley Street as a distinguished
neurologist with a highly individual point of view.

This information was poured into Lord Peters ear at considerable length by
Mr. Thipps, who seemed to feel that the neighbourhood of anybody so
distinguished shed a kind of halo of glory over Queen Caroline Mansions.

We had him round here himself this morning, he said, about this horrid
business. Inspector Sugg 20 thought one of the young medical gentlemen at the
hospital might have brought the corpse round for a joke, as you might say,
they always having bodies in the dissecting-room. So Inspector Sugg went round
to see Sir Julian this morning to ask if there was a body missing. He was very
kind, was Sir Julian, very kind indeed, though he was at work when they got
there, in the dissecting-room. He looked up the books to see that all the
bodies were accounted for, and then very obligingly came round here to look at
thishe indicated the bathand said he was afraid he couldnt help usthere
was no corpse missing from the hospital, and this one didnt answer to the
description of any theyd had.

Nor to the description of any of the patients, I hope, suggested Lord Peter
casually.

At this grisly hint Mr. Thipps turned pale.

I didnt hear Inspector Sugg inquire, he said, with some agitation. What a
very horrid thing that would beGod bless my soul, my lord, I never thought of
it.

Well, if they had missed a patient theyd probably have discovered it by
now, said Lord Peter. Lets have a look at this one.

He screwed his monocle into his eye, adding: I see youre troubled here with
the soot blowing in. Beastly nuisance, aint it? I get it, toospoils all my
books, you know. Here, dont you trouble, if you dont care about lookin at
it.

He took from Mr. Thippss hesitating hand the 21 sheet which had been flung
over the bath, and turned it back.

The body which lay in the bath was that of a tall, stout man of about fifty.
The hair, which was thick and black and naturally curly, had been cut and
parted by a master hand, and exuded a faint violet perfume, perfectly
recognisable in the close air of the bathroom. The features were thick, fleshy
and strongly marked, with prominent dark eyes, and a long nose curving down to
a heavy chin. The clean-shaven lips were full and sensual, and the dropped jaw
showed teeth stained with tobacco. On the dead face the handsome pair of gold
pince-nez mocked death with grotesque elegance; the fine gold chain curved
over the naked breast. The legs lay stiffly stretched out side by side; the
arms reposed close to the body; the fingers were flexed naturally. Lord Peter
lifted one arm, and looked at the hand with a little frown.

Bit of a dandy, your visitor, what? he murmured. Parma violet and
manicure. He bent again, slipping his hand beneath the head. The absurd
eyeglasses slipped off, clattering into the bath, and the noise put the last
touch to Mr. Thippss growing nervousness.

If youll excuse me, he murmured, it makes me feel quite faint, it reely
does.

He slipped outside, and he had no sooner done so than Lord Peter, lifting the
body quickly and cautiously, turned it over and inspected it with his head on
one side, bringing his monocle into play with the 22 air of the late Joseph
Chamberlain approving a rare orchid. He then laid the head over his arm, and
bringing out the silver matchbox from his pocket, slipped it into the open
mouth. Then making the noise usually written Tut-tut, he laid the body down,
picked up the mysterious pince-nez, looked at it, put it on his nose and
looked through it, made the same noise again, readjusted the pince-nez upon
the nose of the corpse, so as to leave no traces of interference for the
irritation of Inspector Sugg; rearranged the body; returned to the window and,
leaning out, reached upwards and sideways with his walking-stick, which he had
somewhat incongruously brought along with him. Nothing appearing to come of
these investigations, he withdrew his head, closed the window, and rejoined
Mr. Thipps in the passage.

Mr. Thipps, touched by this sympathetic interest in the younger son of a duke,
took the liberty, on their return to the sitting-room, of offering him a cup
of tea. Lord Peter, who had strolled over to the window and was admiring the
outlook on Battersea Park, was about to accept, when an ambulance came into
view at the end of Prince of Wales Road. Its appearance reminded Lord Peter of
an important engagement, and with a hurried By Jove! he took his leave of
Mr. Thipps.

My mother sent kind regards and all that, he said, shaking hands fervently;
hopes youll soon be down at Denver again. Good-bye, Mrs. Thipps, he bawled
kindly into the ear of the old lady. Oh, no, my dear sir, please dont
trouble to come down. 23

He was none too soon. As he stepped out of the door and turned towards the
station, the ambulance drew up from the other direction, and Inspector Sugg
emerged from it with two constables. The Inspector spoke to the officer on
duty at the Mansions, and turned a suspicious gaze on Lord Peters retreating
back.

Dear old Sugg, said that nobleman, fondly, dear, dear old bird! How he does
hate me, to be sure. 24

##  CHAPTER II

Excellent, Bunter, said Lord Peter, sinking with a sigh into a luxurious
armchair. I couldnt have done better myself. The thought of the Dante makes
my mouth waterand the Four Sons of Aymon. And youve saved me 60thats
glorious. What shall we spend it on, Bunter? Think of itall ours, to do as we
like with, for as Harold Skimpole so rightly observes, 60 saved is 60
gained, and Id reckoned on spending it all. Its your saving, Bunter, and
properly speaking, your 60. What do we want? Anything in your department?
Would you like anything altered in the flat?

Well, my lord, as your lordship is so goodthe man-servant paused, about to
pour an old brandy into a liqueur glass.

Well, out with it, my Bunter, you imperturbable old hypocrite. Its no good
talking as if you were announcing dinneryoure spilling the brandy. The voice
is Jacobs voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. What does that blessed
darkroom of yours want now?

Theres a Double Anastigmat with a set of supplementary lenses, my lord,
said Bunter, with a note almost of religious fervour. If it was a case of
forgery nowor footprintsI could enlarge them right up on the plate. Or the
wide-angled lens would 25 be useful. Its as though the camera had eyes at the
back of its head, my lord. LookIve got it here.

He pulled a catalogue from his pocket, and submitted it, quivering, to his
employers gaze.

Lord Peter perused the description slowly, the corners of his long mouth
lifted into a faint smile.

Its Greek to me, he said, and 50 seems a ridiculous price for a few bits
of glass. I suppose, Bunter, youd say 750 was a bit out of the way for a
dirty old book in a dead language, wouldnt you?

It wouldnt be my place to say so, my lord.

No, Bunter, I pay you 200 a year to keep your thoughts to yourself. Tell me,
Bunter, in these democratic days, dont you think thats unfair?

No, my lord.

You dont. Dyou mind telling me frankly why you dont think it unfair?

Frankly, my lord, your lordship is paid a noblemans income to take Lady
Worthington in to dinner and refrain from exercising your lordships undoubted
powers of repartee.

Lord Peter considered this.

Thats your idea, is it, Bunter? Noblesse obligefor a consideration. I
daresay youre right. Then youre better off than I am, because Id have to
behave myself to Lady Worthington if I hadnt a penny. Bunter, if I sacked you
here and now, would you tell me what you think of me?

No, my lord.

Youd have a perfect right to, my Bunter, and if I sacked you on top of
drinking the kind of coffee 26 you make, Id deserve everything you could say
of me. Youre a demon for coffee, BunterI dont want to know how you do it,
because I believe it to be witchcraft, and I dont want to burn eternally. You
can buy your cross-eyed lens.

Thank you, my lord.

Have you finished in the dining-room?

Not quite, my lord.

Well, come back when you have. I have many things to tell you. Hullo! whos
that?

The doorbell had rung sharply.

Unless its anybody interestin Im not at home.

Very good, my lord.

Lord Peters library was one of the most delightful bachelor rooms in London.
Its scheme was black and primrose; its walls were lined with rare editions,
and its chairs and Chesterfield sofa suggested the embraces of the houris. In
one corner stood a black baby grand, a wood fire leaped on a wide old-
fashioned hearth, and the Svres vases on the chimneypiece were filled with
ruddy and gold chrysanthemums. To the eyes of the young man who was ushered in
from the raw November fog it seemed not only rare and unattainable, but
friendly and familiar, like a colourful and gilded paradise in a mediaeval
painting.

Mr. Parker, my lord.

Lord Peter jumped up with genuine eagerness.

My dear man, Im delighted to see you. What a beastly foggy night, aint it?
Bunter, some more of that admirable coffee and another glass and the cigars.
Parker, I hope youre full of crimenothing less than 27 arson or murder will
do for us tonight. On such a night as this Bunter and I were just sitting
down to carouse. Ive got a Dante, and a Caxton folio that is practically
unique, at Sir Ralph Brockleburys sale. Bunter, who did the bargaining, is
going to have a lens which does all kinds of wonderful things with its eyes
shut, and

We both have got a body in a bath,

We both have got a body in a bath

For in spite of all temptations

To go in for cheap sensations

We insist upon a body in a bath

Nothing less will do for us, Parker. Its mine at present, but were going
shares in it. Property of the firm. Wont you join us? You really must put
_something_ in the jack-pot. Perhaps you have a body. Oh, do have a body.
Every body welcome.

Gin a body meet a body

Hauled before the beak,

Gin a body jolly well knows who murdered a body  
and that old Sugg is on the wrong tack,

Need a body speak?

Not a bit of it. He tips a glassy wink to yours truly and yours truly reads
the truth.

Ah, said Parker, I knew youd been round to Queen Caroline Mansions. Sove
I, and met Sugg, and he told me hed seen you. He was cross, too.
Unwarrantable interference, he calls it.

I knew he would, said Lord Peter. I love taking a rise out of dear old
Sugg, hes always so rude. I see 28 by the Star that he has excelled himself
by taking the girl, Gladys Whats-her-name, into custody. Sugg of the evening,
beautiful Sugg! But what were _you_ doing there?

To tell you the truth, said Parker, I went round to see if the Semitic-
looking stranger in Mr. Thippss bath was by any extraordinary chance Sir
Reuben Levy. But he isnt.

Sir Reuben Levy? Wait a minute, I saw something about that. I know! A
headline: Mysterious disappearance of famous financier. Whats it all about?
I didnt read it carefully.

Well, its a bit odd, though I daresay its nothing reallyold chap may have
cleared for some reason best known to himself. It only happened this morning,
and nobody would have thought anything about it, only it happened to be the
day on which he had arranged to attend a most important financial meeting and
do some deal involving millionsI havent got all the details. But I know hes
got enemies whod just as soon the deal didnt come off, so when I got wind of
this fellow in the bath, I buzzed round to have a look at him. It didnt seem
likely, of course, but unlikelier things do happen in our profession. The
funny thing is, old Sugg had got bitten with the idea it is him, and is wildly
telegraphing to Lady Levy to come and identify him. But as a matter of fact,
the man in the bath is no more Sir Reuben Levy than Adolf Beck, poor devil,
was John Smith. Oddly enough, though, he would be really extraordinarily like
Sir Reuben if he had a beard, and as Lady Levy 29 is abroad with the family,
somebody may say its him, and Sugg will build up a lovely theory, like the
Tower of Babel, and destined so to perish.

Suggs a beautiful, braying ass, said Lord Peter. Hes like a detective in
a novel. Well, I dont know anything about Levy, but Ive seen the body, and I
should say the idea was preposterous upon the face of it. What do you think of
the brandy?

Unbelievable, Wimseysort of thing makes one believe in heaven. But I want
your yarn.

Dyou mind if Bunter hears it, too? Invaluable man, Bunteramazin fellow
with a camera. And the odd thing is, hes always on the spot when I want my
bath or my boots. I dont know when he develops thingsI believe he does em
in his sleep. Bunter!

Yes, my lord.

Stop fiddling about in there, and get yourself the proper things to drink and
join the merry throng.

Certainly, my lord.

Mr. Parker has a new trick: The Vanishing Financier. Absolutely no deception.
Hey, presto, pass! and where is he? Will some gentleman from the audience
kindly step upon the platform and inspect the cabinet? Thank you, sir. The
quickness of the and deceives the heye.

Im afraid mine isnt much of a story, said Parker. Its just one of those
simple things that offer no handle. Sir Reuben Levy dined last night with
three friends at the Ritz. After dinner the friends went to the theatre. He
refused to go with them on account of an appointment. I havent yet been able
30 to trace the appointment, but anyhow, he returned home to his house9a,
Park Laneat twelve oclock.

Who saw him?

The cook, who had just gone up to bed, saw him on the doorstep, and heard him
let himself in. He walked upstairs, leaving his greatcoat on the hall peg and
his umbrella in the standyou remember how it rained last night. He undressed
and went to bed. Next morning he wasnt there. Thats all, said Parker
abruptly, with a wave of the hand.

It isnt all, it isnt all. Daddy, go on, thats not _half_ a story, pleaded
Lord Peter.

But it _is_ all. When his man came to call him he wasnt there. The bed had
been slept in. His pyjamas and all his clothes were there, the only odd thing
being that they were thrown rather untidily on the ottoman at the foot of the
bed, instead of being neatly folded on a chair, as is Sir Reubens
customlooking as though he had been rather agitated or unwell. No clean
clothes were missing, no suit, no bootsnothing. The boots he had worn were in
his dressing-room as usual. He had washed and cleaned his teeth and done all
the usual things. The housemaid was down cleaning the hall at half-past six,
and can swear that nobody came in or out after that. So one is forced to
suppose that a respectable middle-aged Hebrew financier either went mad
between twelve and six a.m. and walked quietly out of the house in his
birthday suit on a November night, or else was spirited away like the lady in
the Ingoldsby Legends, 31 body and bones, leaving only a heap of crumpled
clothes behind him.

Was the front door bolted?

Thats the sort of question you _would_ ask, straight off; it took me an hour
to think of it. No; contrary to custom, there was only the Yale lock on the
door. On the other hand, some of the maids had been given leave to go to the
theatre, and Sir Reuben may quite conceivably have left the door open under
the impression they had not come in. Such a thing has happened before.

And thats really all?

Really all. Except for one very trifling circumstance.

I love trifling circumstances, said Lord Peter, with childish delight; so
many men have been hanged by trifling circumstances. What was it?

Sir Reuben and Lady Levy, who are a most devoted couple, always share the
same room. Lady Levy, as I said before, is in Mentonne at the moment for her
health. In her absence, Sir Reuben sleeps in the double bed as usual, and
invariably on his own sidethe outsideof the bed. Last night he put the two
pillows together and slept in the middle, or, if anything, rather closer to
the wall than otherwise. The housemaid, who is a most intelligent girl,
noticed this when she went up to make the bed, and, with really admirable
detective instinct, refused to touch the bed or let anybody else touch it,
though it wasnt till later that they actually sent for the police. 32

Was nobody in the house but Sir Reuben and the servants?

No; Lady Levy was away with her daughter and her maid. The valet, cook,
parlourmaid, housemaid and kitchenmaid were the only people in the house, and
naturally wasted an hour or two squawking and gossiping. I got there about
ten.

What have you been doing since?

Trying to get on the track of Sir Reubens appointment last night, since,
with the exception of the cook, his appointer was the last person who saw
him before his disappearance. There may be some quite simple explanation,
though Im dashed if I can think of one for the moment. Hang it all, a man
doesnt come in and go to bed and walk away again mid nodings on in the
middle of the night.

He may have been disguised.

I thought of thatin fact, it seems the only possible explanation. But its
deuced odd, Wimsey. An important city man, on the eve of an important
transaction, without a word of warning to anybody, slips off in the middle of
the night, disguised down to his skin, leaving behind his watch, purse,
cheque-book, andmost mysterious and important of allhis spectacles, without
which he cant see a step, as he is extremely short-sighted. He

That _is_ important, interrupted Wimsey. You are sure he didnt take a
second pair?

His man vouches for it that he had only two pairs, one of which was found on
his dressing-table, and the other in the drawer where it is always kept. 33

Lord Peter whistled.

Youve got me there, Parker. Even if hed gone out to commit suicide hed
have taken those.

So youd thinkor the suicide would have happened the first time he started
to cross the road. However, I didnt overlook the possibility. Ive got
particulars of all todays street accidents, and I can lay my hand on my heart
and say that none of them is Sir Reuben. Besides, he took his latchkey with
him, which looks as though hed meant to come back.

Have you seen the men he dined with?

I found two of them at the club. They said that he seemed in the best of
health and spirits, spoke of looking forward to joining Lady Levy later
onperhaps at Christmasand referred with great satisfaction to this mornings
business transaction, in which one of thema man called Anderson of
Wyndhamswas himself concerned.

Then up till about nine oclock, anyhow, he had no apparent intention or
expectation of disappearing.

Noneunless he was a most consummate actor. Whatever happened to change his
mind must have happened either at the mysterious appointment which he kept
after dinner, or while he was in bed between midnight and 5.30 a.m.

Well, Bunter, said Lord Peter, what do you make of it?

Not in my department, my lord. Except that it is odd that a gentleman who was
too flurried or unwell to fold his clothes as usual should remember to 34
clean his teeth and put his boots out. Those are two things that quite
frequently get overlooked, my lord.

If you mean anything personal, Bunter, said Lord Peter, I can only say that
I think the speech an unworthy one. Its a sweet little problem, Parker mine.
Look here, I dont want to butt in, but I should dearly love to see that
bedroom tomorrow. Tis not that I mistrust thee, dear, but I should uncommonly
like to see it. Say me not naytake another drop of brandy and a Villar
Villar, but say not, say not nay!

Of course you can come and see ityoull probably find lots of things Ive
overlooked, said the other, equably, accepting the proffered hospitality.

Parker, acushla, youre an honour to Scotland Yard. I look at you, and Sugg
appears a myth, a fable, an idiot-boy, spawned in a moonlight hour by some
fantastic poets brain. Sugg is too perfect to be possible. What does he make
of the body, by the way?

Sugg says, replied Parker, with precision, that the body died from a blow
on the back of the neck. The doctor told him that. He says its been dead a
day or two. The doctor told him that, too. He says its the body of a well-to-
do Hebrew of about fifty. Anybody could have told him that. He says its
ridiculous to suppose it came in through the window without anybody knowing
anything about it. He says it probably walked in through the front door and
was murdered by the household. Hes arrested the girl because shes short and
frail-looking and quite unequal to downing a tall and sturdy Semite with a 35
poker. Hed arrest Thipps, only Thipps was away in Manchester all yesterday
and the day before and didnt come back till late last nightin fact, he
wanted to arrest him till I reminded him that if the body had been a day or
two dead, little Thipps couldnt have done him in at 10.30 last night. But
hell arrest him tomorrow as an accessoryand the old lady with the knitting,
too, I shouldnt wonder.

Well, Im glad the little man has so much of an alibi, said Lord Peter,
though if youre only glueing your faith to cadaveric lividity, rigidity, and
all the other quiddities, you must be prepared to have some sceptical beast of
a prosecuting counsel walk slap-bang through the medical evidence. Remember
Impey Biggs defending in that Chelsea tea-shop affair? Six bloomin medicos
contradictin each other in the box, an old Impey elocutin abnormal cases
from Glaister and Dixon Mann till the eyes of the jury reeled in their heads!
Are you prepared to swear, Dr. Thingumtight, that the onset of rigor mortis
indicates the hour of death without the possibility of error? So far as my
experience goes, in the majority of cases, says the doctor, all stiff. Ah!
says Biggs, but this is a Court of Justice, Doctor, not a Parliamentary
election. We cant get on without a minority report. The law, Dr.
Thingumtight, respects the rights of the minority, alive or dead. Some ass
laughs, and old Biggs sticks his chest out and gets impressive. Gentlemen,
this is no laughing matter. My clientan upright and honourable gentlemanis
being tried for his lifefor his life, gentlemenand it is the 36 business of
the prosecution to show his guiltif they canwithout a shadow of doubt. Now,
Dr. Thingumtight, I ask you again, can you solemnly swear, without the least
shadow of doubt,probable, possible shadow of doubtthat this unhappy woman
met her death neither sooner nor later than Thursday evening? A probable
opinion? Gentlemen, we are not Jesuits, we are straightforward Englishmen. You
cannot ask a British-born jury to convict any man on the authority of a
probable opinion. Hum of applause.

Biggss man was guilty all the same, said Parker.

Of course he was. But he was acquitted all the same, an what youve just
said is libel. Wimsey walked over to the bookshelf and took down a volume of
Medical Jurisprudence. Rigor mortiscan only be stated in a very general
waymany factors determine the result. Cautious brute. On the average,
however, stiffening will have begunneck and jaw5 to 6 hours after
deathmmin all likelihood have passed off in the bulk of cases by the end
of 36 hours. Under certain circumstances, however, it may appear unusually
early, or be retarded unusually long! Helpful, aint it, Parker? Brown-
Squard states ... 3 minutes after death.... In certain cases not until lapse
of 16 hours after death ... present as long as 21 days thereafter. Lord!
Modifying factorsagemuscular stateor febrile diseasesor where temperature
of environment is highand so on and so onany bloomin thing. Never mind.
You can run the argument for what its worth 37 to Sugg. _He_ wont know any
better. He tossed the book away. Come back to facts. What did _you_ make of
the body?

Well, said the detective, not very muchI was puzzledfrankly. I should say
he had been a rich man, but self-made, and that his good fortune had come to
him fairly recently.

Ah, you noticed the calluses on the handsI thought you wouldnt miss that.

Both his feet were badly blisteredhe had been wearing tight shoes.

Walking a long way in them, too, said Lord Peter, to get such blisters as
that. Didnt that strike you as odd, in a person evidently well off?

Well, I dont know. The blisters were two or three days old. He might have
got stuck in the suburbs one night, perhapslast train gone and no taxiand
had to walk home.

Possibly.

There were some little red marks all over his back and one leg I couldnt
quite account for.

I saw them.

What did you make of them?

Ill tell you afterwards. Go on.

He was very long-sightedoddly long-sighted for a man in the prime of life;
the glasses were like a very old mans. By the way, they had a very beautiful
and remarkable chain of flat links chased with a pattern. It struck me he
might be traced through it.

Ive just put an advertisement in the _Times_ about it, said Lord Peter. Go
on. 38

He had had the glasses some timethey had been mended twice.

Beautiful, Parker, beautiful. Did you realize the importance of that?

Not specially, Im afraidwhy?

Never mindgo on.

He was probably a sullen, ill-tempered manhis nails were filed down to the
quick as though he habitually bit them, and his fingers were bitten as well.
He smoked quantities of cigarettes without a holder. He was particular about
his personal appearance.

Did you examine the room at all? I didnt get a chance.

I couldnt find much in the way of footprints. Sugg & Co. had tramped all
over the place, to say nothing of little Thipps and the maid, but I noticed a
very indefinite patch just behind the head of the bath, as though something
damp might have stood there. You could hardly call it a print.

It rained hard all last night, of course.

Yes; did you notice that the soot on the window-sill was vaguely marked?

I did, said Wimsey, and I examined it hard with this little fellow, but I
could make nothing of it except that something or other had rested on the
sill. He drew out his monocle and handed it to Parker.

My word, thats a powerful lens.

It is, said Wimsey, and jolly useful when you want to take a good squint at
somethin and look like 39 a bally fool all the time. Only it dont do to wear
it permanentlyif people see you full-face they say: Dear me! how weak the
sight of that eye must be! Still, its useful.

Sugg and I explored the ground at the back of the building, went on Parker,
but there wasnt a trace.

Thats interestin. Did you try the roof?

No.

Well go over it tomorrow. The gutters only a couple of feet off the top of
the window. I measured it with my stickthe gentleman-scouts vade-mecum, I
call itits marked off in inches. Uncommonly handy companion at times.
Theres a sword inside and a compass in the head. Got it made specially.
Anything more?

Afraid not. Lets hear your version, Wimsey.

Well, I think youve got most of the points. There are just one or two little
contradictions. For instance, heres a man wears expensive gold-rimmed pince-
nez and has had them long enough to be mended twice. Yet his teeth are not
merely discoloured, but badly decayed and look as if hed never cleaned them
in his life. There are four molars missing on one side and three on the other
and one front tooth broken right across. Hes a man careful of his personal
appearance, as witness his hair and his hands. What do you say to that?

Oh, these self-made men of low origin dont think much about teeth, and are
terrified of dentists. 40

True; but one of the molars has a broken edge so rough that it had made a
sore place on the tongue. Nothings more painful. Dyou mean to tell me a man
would put up with that if he could afford to get the tooth filed?

Well, people are queer. Ive known servants endure agonies rather than step
over a dentists doormat. How did you see that, Wimsey?

Had a look inside; electric torch, said Lord Peter. Handy little gadget.
Looks like a matchbox. WellI daresay its all right, but I just draw your
attention to it. Second point: Gentleman with hair smellin of Parma violet
and manicured hands and all the rest of it, never washes the inside of his
ears. Full of wax. Nasty.

Youve got me there, Wimsey; I never noticed it. Stillold bad habits die
hard.

Right oh! Put it down at that. Third point: Gentleman with the manicure and
the brilliantine and all the rest of it suffers from fleas.

By Jove, youre right! Flea-bites. It never occurred to me.

No doubt about it, old son. The marks were faint and old, but unmistakable.

Of course, now you mention it. Still, that might happen to anybody. I loosed
a whopper in the best hotel in Lincoln the week before last. I hope it bit the
next occupier!

Oh, all these things _might_ happen to anybodyseparately. Fourth point:
Gentleman who uses Parma 41 violet for his hair, etc., etc., washes his body
in strong carbolic soapso strong that the smell hangs about twenty-four hours
later.

Carbolic to get rid of the fleas.

I will say for you, Parker, youve an answer for everything. Fifth point:
Carefully got-up gentleman, with manicured, though masticated, finger-nails,
has filthy black toe-nails which look as if they hadnt been cut for years.

All of a piece with habits as indicated.

Yes, I know, but such habits! Now, sixth and last point: This gentleman with
the intermittently gentlemanly habits arrives in the middle of a pouring wet
night, and apparently through the window, when he has already been twenty-four
hours dead, and lies down quietly in Mr. Thippss bath, unseasonably dressed
in a pair of pince-nez. Not a hair on his head is ruffledthe hair has been
cut so recently that there are quite a number of little short hairs stuck on
his neck and the sides of the bathand he has shaved so recently that there is
a line of dried soap on his cheek

Wimsey!

Wait a minuteand _dried soap in his mouth_.

Bunter got up and appeared suddenly at the detectives elbow, the respectful
man-servant all over.

A little more brandy, sir? he murmured.

Wimsey, said Parker, you are making me feel cold all over. He emptied his
glassstared at it as though he were surprised to find it empty, set it 42
down, got up, walked across to the bookcase, turned round, stood with his back
against it and said:

Look here, Wimseyyouve been reading detective stories; youre talking
nonsense.

No, I aint, said Lord Peter, sleepily, uncommon good incident for a
detective story, though, what? Bunter, well write one, and you shall
illustrate it with photographs.

Soap in hisRubbish! said Parker. It was something elsesome
discoloration

No, said Lord Peter, there were hairs as well. Bristly ones. He had a
beard.

He took his watch from his pocket, and drew out a couple of longish, stiff
hairs, which he had imprisoned between the inner and the outer case.

Parker turned them over once or twice in his fingers, looked at them close to
the light, examined them with a lens, handed them to the impassible Bunter,
and said:

Do you mean to tell me, Wimsey, that any man alive wouldhe laughed
harshlyshave off his beard with his mouth open, and then go and get killed
with his mouth full of hairs? Youre mad.

I dont tell you so, said Wimsey. You policemen are all alikeonly one idea
in your skulls. Blest if I can make out why youre ever appointed. He was
shaved after he was dead. Pretty, aint it? Uncommonly jolly little job for
the barber, what? Here, sit down, man, and dont be an ass, stumpin about the
room like that. Worse things happen in war. This is 43 only a blinkin old
shillin shocker. But Ill tell you what, Parker, were up against a criminal
_the_ criminalthe real artist and blighter with imaginationreal, artistic,
finished stuff. Im enjoyin this, Parker. 44

##  CHAPTER III

Lord Peter finished a Scarlatti sonata, and sat looking thoughtfully at his
own hands. The fingers were long and muscular, with wide, flat joints and
square tips. When he was playing, his rather hard grey eyes softened, and his
long, indeterminate mouth hardened in compensation. At no other time had he
any pretensions to good looks, and at all times he was spoilt by a long,
narrow chin, and a long, receding forehead, accentuated by the brushed-back
sleekness of his tow-coloured hair. Labour papers, softening down the chin,
caricatured him as a typical aristocrat.

Thats a wonderful instrument, said Parker.

It aint so bad, said Lord Peter, but Scarlatti wants a harpsichord.
Pianos too modernall thrills and overtones. No good for our job, Parker.
Have you come to any conclusion?

The man in the bath, said Parker, methodically, was _not_ a well-off man
careful of his personal appearance. He was a labouring man, unemployed, but
who had only recently lost his employment. He had been tramping about looking
for a job when he met with his end. Somebody killed him and washed him and
scented him and shaved him in order to disguise him, and put him into Thippss
bath without leaving a trace. Conclusion: the murderer was a powerful 45 man,
since he killed him with a single blow on the neck, a man of cool head and
masterly intellect, since he did all that ghastly business without leaving a
mark, a man of wealth and refinement, since he had all the apparatus of an
elegant toilet handy, and a man of bizarre, and almost perverted imagination,
as is shown in the two horrible touches of putting the body in the bath and of
adorning it with a pair of pince-nez.

He is a poet of crime, said Wimsey. By the way, your difficulty about the
pince-nez is cleared up. Obviously, the pince-nez never belonged to the body.

That only makes a fresh puzzle. One cant suppose the murderer left them in
that obliging manner as a clue to his own identity.

We can hardly suppose that; Im afraid this man possessed what most criminals
lacka sense of humour.

Rather macabre humour.

True. But a man who can afford to be humorous at all in such circumstances is
a terrible fellow. I wonder what he did with the body between the murder and
depositing it chez Thipps. Then there are more questions. How did he get it
there? And why? Was it brought in at the door, as Sugg of our heart suggests?
or through the window, as we think, on the not very adequate testimony of a
smudge on the window-sill? Had the murderer accomplices? Is little Thipps
really in it, or the girl? It dont do to put the notion out of court merely
because Sugg inclines to 46 it. Even idiots occasionally speak the truth
accidentally. If not, why was Thipps selected for such an abominable practical
joke? Has anybody got a grudge against Thipps? Who are the people in the other
flats? We must find out that. Does Thipps play the piano at midnight over
their heads or damage the reputation of the staircase by bringing home
dubiously respectable ladies? Are there unsuccessful architects thirsting for
his blood? Damn it all, Parker, there must be a motive somewhere. Cant have a
crime without a motive, you know.

A madman suggested Parker, doubtfully.

With a deuced lot of method in his madness. He hasnt made a mistakenot one,
unless leaving hairs in the corpses mouth can be called a mistake. Well,
anyhow, its not Levyyoure right there. I say, old thing, neither your man
nor mine has left much clue to go upon, has he? And there dont seem to be any
motives knockin about, either. And we seem to be two suits of clothes short
in last nights work. Sir Reuben makes tracks without so much as a fig-leaf,
and a mysterious individual turns up with a pince-nez, which is quite useless
for purposes of decency. Dash it all! If only I had some good excuse for
takin up this body case officially

The telephone bell rang. The silent Bunter, whom the other two had almost
forgotten, padded across to it.

Its an elderly lady, my lord, he said. I think shes deafI cant make her
hear anything, but shes asking for your lordship. 47

Lord Peter seized the receiver, and yelled into it a Hullo! that might have
cracked the vulcanite. He listened for some minutes with an incredulous smile,
which gradually broadened into a grin of delight. At length he screamed: All
right! all right! several times, and rang off.

By Jove! he announced, beaming, sportin old bird! Its old Mrs. Thipps.
Deaf as a post. Never used the phone before. But determined. Perfect
Napoleon. The incomparable Sugg has made a discovery and arrested little
Thipps. Old lady abandoned in the flat. Thippss last shriek to her: Tell
Lord Peter Wimsey. Old girl undaunted. Wrestles with telephone book. Wakes up
the people at the exchange. Wont take no for an answer (not bein able to
hear it), gets through, says: Will I do what I can? Says she would feel safe
in the hands of a real gentleman. Oh, Parker, Parker! I could kiss her, I
reely could, as Thipps says. Ill write to her insteadno, hang it, Parker,
well go round. Bunter, get your infernal machine and the magnesium. I say,
well all go into partnershippool the two cases and work em out together.
You shall see my body tonight, Parker, and Ill look for your wandering Jew
tomorrow. I feel so happy, I shall explode. O Sugg, Sugg, how art thou
suggified! Bunter, my shoes. I say, Parker, I suppose yours are rubber-soled.
Not? Tut, tut, you mustnt go out like that. Well lend you a pair. Gloves?
Here. My stick, my torch, the lampblack, the forceps, knife, pill-boxesall
complete?

Certainly, my lord. 48

Oh, Bunter, dont look so offended. I mean no harm. I believe in you, I trust
youwhat money have I got? Thatll do. I knew a man once, Parker, who let a
world-famous poisoner slip through his fingers because the machine on the
Underground took nothing but pennies. There was a queue at the booking office
and the man at the barrier stopped him, and while they were arguing about
accepting a five-pound-note (which was all he had) for a twopenny ride to
Baker Street, the criminal had sprung into a Circle train, and was next heard
of in Constantinople, disguised as an elderly Church of England clergyman
touring with his niece. Are we all ready? Go!

They stepped out, Bunter carefully switching off the lights behind them.

As they emerged into the gloom and gleam of Piccadilly, Wimsey stopped short
with a little exclamation.

Wait a second, he said. Ive thought of something. If Suggs there hell
make trouble. I must short-circuit him.

He ran back, and the other two men employed the few minutes of his absence in
capturing a taxi.

Inspector Sugg and a subordinate Cerberus were on guard at 59, Queen Caroline
Mansions, and showed no disposition to admit unofficial inquirers. Parker,
indeed, they could not easily turn away, but Lord Peter found himself
confronted with a surly manner and what Lord Beaconsfield described as a 49
masterly inactivity. It was in vain that Lord Peter pleaded that he had been
retained by Mrs. Thipps on behalf of her son.

Retained! said Inspector Sugg, with a snort.  _Shell_ be retained if she
doesnt look out. Shouldnt wonder if she wasnt in it herself, only shes so
deaf, shes no good for anything at all.

Look here, Inspector, said Lord Peter, whats the use of bein so bally
obstructive? Youd much better let me inyou know Ill get there in the end.
Dash it all, its not as if I was takin the bread out of your childrens
mouths. Nobody paid me for finding Lord Attenburys emeralds for you.

Its my duty to keep out the public, said Inspector Sugg, morosely, and
its going to stay out.

I never said anything about your keeping out of the public, said Lord Peter,
easily, sitting down on the staircase to thrash the matter out comfortably,
though Ive no doubt pussyfoots a good thing, on principle, if not
exaggerated. The golden mean, Sugg, as Aristotle says, keeps you from bein a
golden ass. Ever been a golden ass, Sugg? I have. It would take a whole rose-
garden to cure me, Sugg

You are my garden of beautiful roses,

My own rose, my one rose, thats you!

Im not going to stay any longer talking to you, said the harassed Sugg;
its bad enough Hullo, drat that telephone. Here, Cawthorn, go and see what
it is, if that old catamaran will let you into the room. Shutting herself up
there and screaming, said the 50 Inspector, its enough to make a man give
up crime and take to hedging and ditching.

The constable came back:

Its from the Yard, sir, he said, coughing apologetically; the Chief says
every facility is to be given to Lord Peter Wimsey, sir. Um! He stood apart
noncommittally, glazing his eyes.

Five aces, said Lord Peter, cheerfully. The Chiefs a dear friend of my
mothers. No go, Sugg, its no good buckin; youve got a full house. Im
goin to make it a bit fuller.

He walked in with his followers.

The body had been removed a few hours previously, and when the bathroom and
the whole flat had been explored by the naked eye and the camera of the
competent Bunter, it became evident that the real problem of the household was
old Mrs. Thipps. Her son and servant had both been removed, and it appeared
that they had no friends in town, beyond a few business acquaintances of
Thippss, whose very addresses the old lady did not know. The other flats in
the building were occupied respectively by a family of seven, at present
departed to winter abroad, an elderly Indian colonel of ferocious manners, who
lived alone with an Indian man-servant, and a highly respectable family on the
third floor, whom the disturbance over their heads had outraged to the last
degree. The husband, indeed, when appealed to by Lord Peter, showed a little
human weakness, but Mrs. Appledore, appearing suddenly in a warm dressing-
gown, 51 extricated him from the difficulties into which he was carelessly
wandering.

I am sorry, she said, Im afraid we cant interfere in any way. This is a
very unpleasant business, Mr. Im afraid I didnt catch your name, and we
have always found it better not to be mixed up with the police. Of course,
_if_ the Thippses are innocent, and I am sure I hope they are, it is very
unfortunate for them, but I must say that the circumstances seem to me most
suspicious, and to Theophilus too, and I should not like to have it said that
we had assisted murderers. We might even be supposed to be accessories. Of
course you are young, Mr.

This is Lord Peter Wimsey, my dear, said Theophilus mildly.

She was unimpressed.

Ah, yes, she said, I believe you are distantly related to my late cousin,
the Bishop of Carisbrooke. Poor man! He was always being taken in by
impostors; he died without ever learning any better. I imagine you take after
him, Lord Peter.

I doubt it, said Lord Peter. So far as I know he is only a connection,
though its a wise child that knows its own father. I congratulate you, dear
lady, on takin after the other side of the family. Youll forgive my buttin
in upon you like this in the middle of the night, though, as you say, its all
in the family, and Im sure Im very much obliged to you, and for permittin
me to admire that awfully fetchin thing youve got on. Now, dont you worry,
Mr. 52 Appledore. Im thinkin the best thing I can do is to trundle the old
lady down to my mother and take her out of your way, otherwise you might be
findin your Christian feelins gettin the better of you some fine day, and
theres nothin like Christian feelins for upsettin a mans domestic
comfort. Good-night, sirgood-night, dear ladyits simply rippin of you to
let me drop in like this.

Well! said Mrs. Appledore, as the door closed behind him.

And

I thank the goodness and the grace

That on my birth have smiled,

said Lord Peter, and taught me to be bestially impertinent when I choose.
Cat!

Two a.m. saw Lord Peter Wimsey arrive in a friends car at the Dower House,
Denver Castle, in company with a deaf and aged lady and an antique
portmanteau.

Its very nice to see you, dear, said the Dowager Duchess, placidly. She was
a small, plump woman, with perfectly white hair and exquisite hands. In
feature she was as unlike her second son as she was like him in character; her
black eyes twinkled cheerfully, and her manners and movements were marked with
a neat and rapid decision. She wore a charming wrap from Libertys, and sat
watching Lord Peter eat cold beef and cheese as though his arrival in such
incongruous circumstances and company were the 53 most ordinary event
possible, which with him, indeed, it was.

Have you got the old lady to bed? asked Lord Peter.

Oh, yes, dear. Such a striking old person, isnt she? And very courageous.
She tells me she has never been in a motor-car before. But she thinks you a
very nice lad, dearthat careful of her, you remind her of her own son. Poor
little Mr. Thippswhatever made your friend the inspector think he could have
murdered anybody?

My friend the inspectorno, no more, thank you, Motheris determined to prove
that the intrusive person in Thippss bath is Sir Reuben Levy, who disappeared
mysteriously from his house last night. His line of reasoning is: Weve lost a
middle-aged gentleman without any clothes on in Park Lane; weve found a
middle-aged gentleman without any clothes on in Battersea. Therefore theyre
one and the same person, Q.E.D., and put little Thipps in quod.

Youre very elliptical, dear, said the Duchess, mildly. Why should Mr.
Thipps be arrested even if they are the same?

Sugg must arrest somebody, said Lord Peter, but there is one odd little bit
of evidence come out which goes a long way to support Suggs theory, only that
I know it to be no go by the evidence of my own eyes. Last night at about 9.15
a young woman was strollin up the Battersea Park Road for purposes best known
to herself, when she saw a gentleman in a fur coat and top-hat saunterin
along under an 54 umbrella, lookin at the names of all the streets. He looked
a bit out of place, so, not bein a shy girl, you see, she walked up to him,
and said: Good-evening. Can you tell me, please, says the mysterious
stranger, whether this street leads into Prince of Wales Road? She said it
did, and further asked him in a jocular manner what he was doing with himself
and all the rest of it, only she wasnt altogether so explicit about that part
of the conversation, because she was unburdenin her heart to Sugg, dyou see,
and hes paid by a grateful country to have very pure, high-minded ideals,
what? Anyway, the old boy said he couldnt attend to her just then as he had
an appointment. Ive got to go and see a man, my dear, was how she said he
put it, and he walked on up Alexandra Avenue towards Prince of Wales Road. She
was starin after him, still rather surprised, when she was joined by a friend
of hers, who said: Its no good wasting your time with himthats LevyI knew
him when I lived in the West End, and the girls used to call him Peagreen
Incorruptiblefriends name suppressed, owing to implications of story, but
girl vouches for what was said. She thought no more about it till the milkman
brought news this morning of the excitement at Queen Caroline Mansions; then
she went round, though not likin the police as a rule, and asked the man
there whether the dead gentleman had a beard and glasses. Told he had glasses
but no beard, she incautiously said: Oh, then, it isnt him, and the man
said: Isnt who? and collared her. 55 Thats her story. Suggs delighted, of
course, and quodded Thipps on the strength of it.

Dear me, said the Duchess, I hope the poor girl wont get into trouble.

Shouldnt think so, said Lord Peter. Thipps is the one thats going to get
it in the neck. Besides, hes done a silly thing. I got that out of Sugg, too,
though he was sittin tight on the information. Seems Thipps got into a
confusion about the train he took back from Manchester. Said first he got home
at 10.30. Then they pumped Gladys Horrocks, who let out he wasnt back till
after 11.45. Then Thipps, bein asked to explain the discrepancy, stammers and
bungles and says, first, that he missed the train. Then Sugg makes inquiries
at St. Pancras and discovers that he left a bag in the cloakroom there at ten.
Thipps, again asked to explain, stammers worse an says he walked about for a
few hoursmet a friendcant say whodidnt meet a friendcant say what he
did with his timecant explain why he didnt go back for his bagcant say
what time he _did_ get incant explain how he got a bruise on his forehead.
In fact, cant explain himself at all. Gladys Horrocks interrogated again.
Says, this time, Thipps came in at 10.30. Then admits she didnt hear him come
in. Cant say why she didnt hear him come in. Cant say why she said first of
all that she _did_ hear him. Bursts into tears. Contradicts herself.
Everybodys suspicion roused. Quod em both.

As you put it, dear, said the Duchess, it all sounds very confusing, and
not quite respectable. 56 Poor little Mr. Thipps would be terribly upset by
anything that wasnt respectable.

I wonder what he did with himself, said Lord Peter thoughtfully. I really
dont think he was committing a murder. Besides, I believe the fellow has been
dead a day or two, though it dont do to build too much on doctors evidence.
Its an entertainin little problem.

Very curious, dear. But so sad about poor Sir Reuben. I must write a few
lines to Lady Levy; I used to know her quite well, you know, dear, down in
Hampshire, when she was a girl. Christine Ford, she was then, and I remember
so well the dreadful trouble there was about her marrying a Jew. That was
before he made his money, of course, in that oil business out in America. The
family wanted her to marry Julian Freke, who did so well afterwards and was
connected with the family, but she fell in love with this Mr. Levy and eloped
with him. He was very handsome, then, you know, dear, in a foreign-looking
way, but he hadnt any means, and the Fords didnt like his religion. Of
course were all Jews nowadays, and they wouldnt have minded so much if hed
pretended to be something else, like that Mr. Simons we met at Mrs.
Porchesters, who always tells everybody that he got his nose in Italy at the
Renaissance, and claims to be descended somehow or other from La Bella
Simonettaso foolish, you know, dearas if anybody believed it; and Im sure
some Jews are very good people, and personally Id much rather they believed
something, though of course it must be very 57 inconvenient, what with not
working on Saturdays and circumcising the poor little babies and everything
depending on the new moon and that funny kind of meat they have with such a
slang-sounding name, and never being able to have bacon for breakfast. Still,
there it was, and it was much better for the girl to marry him if she was
really fond of him, though I believe young Freke was really devoted to her,
and theyre still great friends. Not that there was ever a real engagement,
only a sort of understanding with her father, but hes never married, you
know, and lives all by himself in that big house next to the hospital, though
hes very rich and distinguished now, and I know ever so many people have
tried to get hold of himthere was Lady Mainwaring wanted him for that eldest
girl of hers, though I remember saying at the time it was no use expecting a
surgeon to be taken in by a figure that was all paddingthey have so many
opportunities of judging, you know, dear.

Lady Levy seems to have had the knack of makin people devoted to her, said
Peter. Look at the pea-green incorruptible Levy.

Thats quite true, dear; she was a most delightful girl, and they say her
daughter is just like her. I rather lost sight of them when she married, and
you know your father didnt care much about business people, but I know
everybody always said they were a model couple. In fact it was a proverb that
Sir Reuben was as well loved at home as he was hated abroad. I dont mean in
foreign countries, you know, dearjust the 58 proverbial way of putting
thingslike a saint abroad and a devil at homeonly the other way on,
reminding one of the _Pilgrims Progress_.

Yes, said Peter, I daresay the old man made one or two enemies.

Dozens, dearsuch a dreadful place, the City, isnt it? Everybody Ishmaels
togetherthough I dont suppose Sir Reuben would like to be called that, would
he? Doesnt it mean illegitimate, or not a proper Jew, anyway? I always did
get confused with those Old Testament characters.

Lord Peter laughed and yawned.

I think Ill turn in for an hour or two, he said. I must be back in town at
eightParkers coming to breakfast.

The Duchess looked at the clock, which marked five minutes to three.

Ill send up your breakfast at half-past six, dear, she said. I hope youll
find everything all right. I told them just to slip a hot-water bottle in;
those linen sheets are so chilly; you can put it out if its in your way. 59

##  CHAPTER IV

So there it is, Parker, said Lord Peter, pushing his coffee-cup aside and
lighting his after-breakfast pipe; you may find it leads you to something,
though it dont seem to get me any further with my bathroom problem. Did you
do anything more at that after I left?

No; but Ive been on the roof this morning.

The deuce you havewhat an energetic devil you are! I say, Parker, I think
this co-operative scheme is an uncommonly good one. Its much easier to work
on someone elses job than ones owngives one that delightful feelin of
interferin and bossin about, combined with the glorious sensation that
another fellow is takin all ones own work off ones hands. You scratch my
back and Ill scratch yours, what? Did you find anything?

Not very much. I looked for any footmarks of course, but naturally, with all
this rain, there wasnt a sign. Of course, if this were a detective story,
thered have been a convenient shower exactly an hour before the crime and a
beautiful set of marks which could only have come there between two and three
in the morning, but this being real life in a London November, you might as
well expect footprints in Niagara. I searched the roofs right alongand came
to the jolly conclusion that any person in 60 any blessed flat in the blessed
row might have done it. All the staircases open on to the roof and the leads
are quite flat; you can walk along as easy as along Shaftesbury Avenue. Still,
Ive got some evidence that the body did walk along there.

Whats that?

Parker brought out his pocketbook and extracted a few shreds of material,
which he laid before his friend.

One was caught in the gutter just above Thippss bathroom window, another in
a crack of the stone parapet just over it, and the rest came from the chimney-
stack behind, where they had caught in an iron stanchion. What do you make of
them?

Lord Peter scrutinized them very carefully through his lens.

Interesting, he said, damned interesting. Have you developed those plates,
Bunter? he added, as that discreet assistant came in with the post.

Yes, my lord.

Caught anything?

I dont know whether to call it anything or not, my lord, said Bunter,
dubiously. Ill bring the prints in.

Do, said Wimsey. Hallo! heres our advertisement about the gold chain in
the _Times_ very nice it looks: Write,phone or call 110, Piccadilly.
Perhaps it would have been safer to put a box number, though I always think
that the franker you are with people, the more youre likely to deceive em;
so unused is 61 the modern world to the open hand and the guileless heart,
what?

But you dont think the fellow who left that chain on the body is going to
give himself away by coming here and inquiring about it?

I dont, fathead, said Lord Peter, with the easy politeness of the real
aristocracy; thats why Ive tried to get hold of the jeweller who originally
sold the chain. See? He pointed to the paragraph. Its not an old
chainhardly worn at all. Oh, thanks, Bunter. Now, see here, Parker, these are
the finger-marks you noticed yesterday on the window-sash and on the far edge
of the bath. Id overlooked them; I give you full credit for the discovery, I
crawl, I grovel, my name is Watson, and you need not say what you were just
going to say, because I admit it all. Now we shallHullo, hullo, hullo!

The three men stared at the photographs.

The criminal, said Lord Peter, bitterly, climbed over the roofs in the wet
and not unnaturally got soot on his fingers. He arranged the body in the bath,
and wiped away all traces of himself except two, which he obligingly left to
show us how to do our job. We learn from a smudge on the floor that he wore
india rubber boots, and from this admirable set of finger-prints on the edge
of the bath that he had the usual number of fingers and wore rubber gloves.
Thats the kind of man he is. Take the fool away, gentlemen.

He put the prints aside, and returned to an examination 62 of the shreds of
material in his hand. Suddenly he whistled softly.

Do you make anything of these, Parker?

They seemed to me to be ravellings of some coarse cotton stuffa sheet,
perhaps, or an improvised rope.

Yes, said Lord Peteryes. It may be a mistakeit may be _our_ mistake. I
wonder. Tell me, dyou think these tiny threads are long enough and strong
enough to hang a man?

He was silent, his long eyes narrowing into slits behind the smoke of his
pipe.

What do you suggest doing this morning? asked Parker.

Well, said Lord Peter, it seems to me its about time I took a hand in your
job. Lets go round to Park Lane and see what larks Sir Reuben Levy was up to
in bed last night.

And now, Mrs. Pemming, if you would be so kind as to give me a blanket, said
Mr. Bunter, coming down into the kitchen, and permit of me hanging a sheet
across the lower part of this window, and drawing the screen across here,
soso as to shut off any reflections, if you understand me, well get to
work.

Sir Reuben Levys cook, with her eye upon Mr. Bunters gentlemanly and well-
tailored appearance, hastened to produce what was necessary. Her visitor
placed on the table a basket, containing a water-bottle, a silver-backed hair-
brush, a pair of boots, a small roll of linoleum, and the Letters of a Self-
made 63 Merchant to His Son, bound in polished morocco. He drew an umbrella
from beneath his arm and added it to the collection. He then advanced a
ponderous photographic machine and set it up in the neighbourhood of the
kitchen range; then, spreading a newspaper over the fair, scrubbed surface of
the table, he began to roll up his sleeves and insinuate himself into a pair
of surgical gloves. Sir Reuben Levys valet, entering at the moment and
finding him thus engaged, put aside the kitchenmaid, who was staring from a
front-row position, and inspected the apparatus critically. Mr. Bunter nodded
brightly to him, and uncorked a small bottle of grey powder.

Odd sort of fish, your employer, isnt he? said the valet, carelessly.

Very singular, indeed, said Mr. Bunter. Now, my dear, he added,
ingratiatingly, to the kitchen-maid, I wonder if youd just pour a little of
this grey powder over the edge of the bottle while Im holding itand the same
with this boothere, at the topthank you, Misswhat is your name? Price? Oh,
but youve got another name besides Price, havent you? Mabel, eh? Thats a
name Im uncommonly partial tothats very nicely done, youve a steady hand,
Miss Mabelsee that? Thats the finger marksthree there, and two here, and
smudged over in both places. No, dont you touch em, my dear, or youll rub
the bloom off. Well stand em up here till theyre ready to have their
portraits taken. Now then, lets take the hair-brush next. Perhaps, Mrs. 64
Pemming, youd like to lift him up very carefully by the bristles.

By the bristles, Mr. Bunter?

If you please, Mrs. Pemmingand lay him here. Now, Miss Mabel, another little
exhibition of your skill, _if_ you please. Nowell try lamp-black this time.
Perfect. Couldnt have done it better myself. Ah! theres a beautiful set. No
smudges this time. Thatll interest his lordship. Now the little bookno, Ill
pick that up myselfwith these gloves, you see, and by the edgesIm a careful
criminal, Mrs. Pemming, I dont want to leave any traces. Dust the cover all
over, Miss Mabel; now this sidethats the way to do it. Lots of prints and no
smudges. All according to plan. Oh, please, Mr. Graves, you mustnt touch
itits as much as my place is worth to have it touched.

Dyou have to do much of this sort of thing? inquired Mr. Graves, from a
superior standpoint.

Any amount, replied Mr. Bunter, with a groan calculated to appeal to Mr.
Gravess heart and unlock his confidence. If youd kindly hold one end of
this bit of linoleum, Mrs. Pemming, Ill hold up this end while Miss Mabel
operates. Yes, Mr. Graves, its a hard life, valeting by day and developing by
nightmorning tea at any time from 6.30 to 11, and criminal investigation at
all hours. Its wonderful, the ideas these rich men with nothing to do get
into their heads.

I wonder you stand it, said Mr. Graves. Now theres none of that here. A
quiet, orderly, domestic life, Mr. Bunter, has much to be said for it. Meals
at 65 regular hours; decent, respectable families to dinnernone of your
painted womenand no valeting at night, theres _much_ to be said for it. I
dont hold with Hebrews as a rule, Mr. Bunter, and of course I understand that
you may find it to your advantage to be in a titled family, but theres less
thought of that these days, and I will say, for a self-made man, no one could
call Sir Reuben vulgar, and my lady at any rate is countyMiss Ford, she was,
one of the Hampshire Fords, and both of them always most considerate.

I agree with you, Mr. Graveshis lordship and me have never held with being
narrow-mindedwhy, yes, my dear, of course its a footmark, this is the
washstand linoleum. A good Jew can be a good man, thats what Ive always
said. And regular hours and considerate habits have a great deal to recommend
them. Very simple in his tastes, now, Sir Reuben, isnt he? for such a rich
man, I mean.

Very simple indeed, said the cook; the meals he and her ladyship have when
theyre by themselves with Miss Rachelwell, there nowif it wasnt for the
dinners, which is always good when theres company, Id be wastin my talents
and education here, if you understand me, Mr. Bunter.

Mr. Bunter added the handle of the umbrella to his collection, and began to
pin a sheet across the window, aided by the housemaid.

Admirable, said he. Now, if I might have this blanket on the table and
another on a towel-horse or something of that kind by way of a
backgroundyoure 66 very kind, Mrs. Pemming.... Ah! I wish his lordship never
wanted valeting at night. Manys the time Ive sat up till three and four, and
up again to call him early to go off Sherlocking at the other end of the
country. And the mud he gets on his clothes and his boots!

Im sure its a shame, Mr. Bunter, said Mrs. Pemming, warmly. Low, I calls
it. In my opinion, police-work aint no fit occupation for a gentleman, let
alone a lordship.

Everything made so difficult, too, said Mr. Bunter nobly sacrificing his
employers character and his own feelings in a good cause; boots chucked into
a corner, clothes hung up on the floor, as they say

Thats often the case with these men as are born with a silver spoon in their
mouths, said Mr. Graves. Now, Sir Reuben, hes never lost his good old-
fashioned habits. Clothes folded up neat, boots put out in his dressing-room,
so as a man could get them in the morning, everything made easy.

He forgot them the night before last, though.

The clothes, not the boots. Always thoughtful for others, is Sir Reuben. Ah!
I hope nothings happened to him.

Indeed, no, poor gentleman, chimed in the cook, and as for what theyre
sayin, that hed ave gone out surrepshous-like to do something he didnt
ought, well, Id never believe it of him, Mr. Bunter, not if I was to take my
dying oath upon it.

Ah! said Mr. Bunter, adjusting his arc-lamps and connecting them with the
nearest electric light, and 67 thats more than most of us could say of them
as pays us.

Five foot ten, said Lord Peter, and not an inch more. He peered dubiously
at the depression in the bed clothes, and measured it a second time with the
gentleman-scouts vade-mecum. Parker entered this particular in a neat
pocketbook.

I suppose, he said, a six-foot-two man _might_ leave a five-foot-ten
depression if he curled himself up.

Have you any Scotch blood in you, Parker? inquired his colleague, bitterly.

Not that I know of, replied Parker. Why?

Because of all the cautious, ungenerous, deliberate and cold-blooded devils I
know, said Lord Peter, you are the most cautious, ungenerous, deliberate and
cold-blooded. Here am I, sweating my brains out to introduce a really
sensational incident into your dull and disreputable little police
investigation, and you refuse to show a single spark of enthusiasm.

Well, its no good jumping at conclusions.

Jump? You dont even crawl distantly within sight of a conclusion. I believe
if you caught the cat with her head in the cream-jug youd say it was
conceivable that the jug was empty when she got there.

Well, it would be conceivable, wouldnt it?

Curse you, said Lord Peter. He screwed his monocle into his eye, and bent
over the pillow, breathing hard and tightly through his nose. Here, give me
the tweezers, he said presently. Good heavens, man, 68 dont blow like that,
you might be a whale. He nipped up an almost invisible object from the linen.

What is it? asked Parker.

Its a hair, said Wimsey grimly, his hard eyes growing harder. Lets go and
look at Levys hats, shall we? And you might just ring for that fellow with
the churchyard name, do you mind?

Mr. Graves, when summoned, found Lord Peter Wimsey squatting on the floor of
the dressing-room before a row of hats arranged upside down before him.

Here you are, said that nobleman cheerfully. Now, Graves, this is a
guessin competitiona sort of three-hat trick, to mix metaphors. Here are
nine hats, including three top-hats. Do you identify all these hats as
belonging to Sir Reuben Levy? You do? Very good. Now I have three guesses as
to which hat he wore the night he disappeared, and if I guess right, I win; if
I dont, you win. See? Ready? Go. I suppose you know the answer yourself, by
the way?

Do I understand your lordship to be asking which hat Sir Reuben wore when he
went out on Monday night, your lordship?

No, you dont understand a bit, said Lord Peter. Im asking if _you_
knowdont tell me, Im going to guess.

I do know, your lordship, said Mr. Graves, reprovingly.

Well, said Lord Peter, as he was dinin at the Ritz he wore a topper. Here
are three toppers. In three guesses Id be bound to hit the right one, 69
wouldnt I? That dont seem very sportin. Ill take one guess. It was this
one.

He indicated the hat next the window.

Am I right, Graveshave I got the prize?

That _is_ the hat in question, my lord, said Mr. Graves, without excitement.

Thanks, said Lord Peter, thats all I wanted to know. Ask Bunter to step
up, would you?

Mr. Bunter stepped up with an aggrieved air, and his usually smooth hair
ruffled by the focussing cloth.

Oh, there you are, Bunter, said Lord Peter; look here

Here I am, my lord, said Mr. Bunter, with respectful reproach, but if
youll excuse me saying so, downstairs is where I ought to be, with all those
young women abouttheyll be fingering the evidence, my lord.

I cry your mercy, said Lord Peter, but Ive quarrelled hopelessly with Mr.
Parker and distracted the estimable Graves, and I want you to tell me what
finger-prints you have found. I shant be happy till I get it, so dont be
harsh with me, Bunter.

Well, my lord, your lordship understands I havent photographed them yet, but
I wont deny that their appearance is interesting, my lord. The little book
off the night table, my lord, has only the marks of one set of fingerstheres
a little scar on the right thumb which makes them easy recognised. The hair-
brush, too, my lord, has only the same set of marks. The umbrella, the
toothglass and the boots all have two sets: the hand with the scarred thumb,
which I 70 take to be Sir Reubens, my lord, and a set of smudges superimposed
upon them, if I may put it that way, my lord, which may or may not be the same
hand in rubber gloves. I could tell you better when Ive got the photographs
made, to measure them, my lord. The linoleum in front of the washstand is very
gratifying indeed, my lord, if you will excuse my mentioning it. Besides the
marks of Sir Reubens boots which your lordship pointed out, theres the print
of a mans naked foota much smaller one, my lord, not much more than a ten-
inch sock, I should say if you asked me.

Lord Peters face became irradiated with almost a dim, religious light.

A mistake, he breathed, a mistake, a little one, but he cant afford it.
When was the linoleum washed last, Bunter?

Monday morning, my lord. The housemaid did it and remembered to mention it.
Only remark shes made yet, and its to the point. The other domestics

His features expressed disdain.

What did I say, Parker? Five-foot-ten and not an inch longer. And he didnt
dare to use the hair-brush. Beautiful. But he _had_ to risk the top-hat.
Gentleman cant walk home in the rain late at night without a hat, you know,
Parker. Look! what do you make of it? Two sets of finger-prints on everything
but the book and the brush, two sets of feet on the linoleum, and two kinds of
hair in the hat! 71

He lifted the top-hat to the light, and extracted the evidence with tweezers.

Think of it, Parkerto remember the hair-brush and forget the hatto remember
his fingers all the time, and to make that one careless step on the tell-tale
linoleum. Here they are, you see, black hair and tan hairblack hair in the
bowler and the panama, and black and tan in last nights topper. And then,
just to make certain that were on the right track, just one little auburn
hair on the pillow, on this pillow, Parker, which isnt quite in the right
place. It almost brings tears to my eyes.

Do you mean to say said the detective, slowly.

I mean to say, said Lord Peter, that it was not Sir Reuben Levy whom the
cook saw last night on the doorstep. I say that it was another man, perhaps a
couple of inches shorter, who came here in Levys clothes and let himself in
with Levys latchkey. Oh, he was a bold, cunning devil, Parker. He had on
Levys boots, and every stitch of Levys clothing down to the skin. He had
rubber gloves on his hands which he never took off, and he did everything he
could to make us think that Levy slept here last night. He took his chances,
and won. He walked upstairs, he undressed, he even washed and cleaned his
teeth, though he didnt use the hair-brush for fear of leaving red hairs in
it. He had to guess what Levy did with boots and clothes; one guess was wrong
and the other right, as it happened. The bed must look as if it had been slept
in, so he gets in, and lies there in his victims very pyjamas. Then, in the
morning sometime, probably 72 in the deadest hour between two and three, he
gets up, dresses himself in his own clothes that he has brought with him in a
bag, and creeps downstairs. If anybody wakes, he is lost, but he is a bold
man, and he takes his chance. He knows that people do not wake as a ruleand
they dont wake. He opens the street door which he left on the latch when he
came inhe listens for the stray passer-by or the policeman on his beat. He
slips out. He pulls the door quietly to with the latchkey. He walks briskly
away in rubber-soled shoeshes the kind of criminal who isnt complete
without rubber-soled shoes. In a few minutes he is at Hyde Park Corner. After
that

He paused, and added:

He did all that, and unless he had nothing at stake, he had everything at
stake. Either Sir Reuben Levy has been spirited away for some silly practical
joke, or the man with the auburn hair has the guilt of murder upon his soul.

Dear me! ejaculated the detective, youre very dramatic about it.

Lord Peter passed his hand rather wearily over his hair.

My true friend, he murmured in a voice surcharged with emotion, you recall
me to the nursery rhymes of my youththe sacred duty of flippancy:

There was an old man of Whitehaven

Who danced a quadrille with a raven,

But they said: Its absurd

To encourage that bird

So they smashed that old man of Whitehaven.

73

Thats the correct attitude, Parker. Heres a poor old buffer spirited
awaysuch a jokeand I dont believe hed hurt a fly himselfthat makes it
funnier. Dyou know, Parker, I dont care frightfully about this case after
all.

Which, this or yours?

Both. I say, Parker, shall we go quietly home and have lunch and go to the
Coliseum?

You can if you like, replied the detective; but you forget I do this for my
bread and butter.

And I havent even that excuse, said Lord Peter; well, whats the next
move? What would you do in my case?

Id do some good, hard grind, said Parker. Id distrust every bit of work
Sugg ever did, and Id get the family history of every tenant of every flat in
Queen Caroline Mansions. Id examine all their box-rooms and rooftraps, and I
would inveigle them into conversations and suddenly bring in the words body
and pince-nez, and see if they wriggled, like those modern psyo-whats-his-
names.

You would, would you? said Lord Peter with a grin. Well, weve exchanged
cases, you know, so just you toddle off and do it. Im going to have a jolly
time at Wyndhams.

Parker made a grimace.

Well, he said, I dont suppose youd ever do it, so Id better. Youll
never become a professional till you learn to do a little work, Wimsey. How
about lunch?

Im invited out, said Lord Peter, magnificently. 74 Ill run around and
change at the club. Cant feed with Freddy Arbuthnot in these bags; Bunter!

Yes, my lord.

Pack up if youre ready, and come round and wash my face and hands for me at
the club.

Work here for another two hours, my lord. Cant do with less than thirty
minutes exposure. The currents none too strong.

You see how Im bullied by my own man, Parker? Well, I must bear it, I
suppose. Ta-ta!

He whistled his way downstairs.

The conscientious Mr. Parker, with a groan, settled down to a systematic
search through Sir Reuben Levys papers, with the assistance of a plate of ham
sandwiches and a bottle of Bass.

Lord Peter and the Honourable Freddy Arbuthnot, looking together like an
advertisement for gents trouserings, strolled into the dining-room at
Wyndhams.

Havent seen you for an age, said the Honourable Freddy. What have you been
doin with yourself?

Oh, foolin about, said Lord Peter, languidly.

Thick or clear, sir? inquired the waiter of the Honourable Freddy.

Whichll you have, Wimsey? said that gentleman, transferring the burden of
selection to his guest. Theyre both equally poisonous.

Well, clears less trouble to lick out of the spoon, said Lord Peter. 75

Clear, said the Honourable Freddy.

Consomm Polonais, agreed the waiter. Very nice, sir.

Conversation languished until the Honourable Freddy found a bone in the
filleted sole, and sent for the head waiter to explain its presence. When this
matter had been adjusted Lord Peter found energy to say:

Sorry to hear about your govnor, old man.

Yes, poor old buffer, said the Honourable Freddy; they say he cant last
long now. What? Oh! the Montrachet 08. Theres nothing fit to drink in this
place, he added gloomily.

After this deliberate insult to a noble vintage there was a further pause,
till Lord Peter said: Hows Change?

Rotten, said the Honourable Freddy.

He helped himself gloomily to salmis of game.

Can I do anything? asked Lord Peter.

Oh, no, thanksvery decent of you, but itll pan out all right in time.

This isnt a bad salmis, said Lord Peter.

Ive eaten worse, admitted his friend.

What about those Argentines? inquired Lord Peter. Here, waiter, theres a
bit of cork in my glass.

Cork? cried the Honourable Freddy, with something approaching animation;
youll hear about this, waiter. Its an amazing thing a fellow whos paid to
do the job cant manage to take a cork out of a bottle. What you say?
Argentines? Gone all to hell. 76 Old Levy bunkin off like thats knocked the
bottom out of the market.

You dont say so, said Lord Peter. What dyou suppose has happened to the
old man?

Cursed if I know, said the Honourable Freddy; knocked on the head by the
bears, I should think.

Praps hes gone off on his own, suggested Lord Peter. Double life, you
know. Giddy old blighters, some of these City men.

Oh, no, said the Honourable Freddy, faintly roused; no, hang it all,
Wimsey, I wouldnt care to say that. Hes a decent old domestic bird, and his
daughters a charmin girl. Besides, hes straight enoughhed _do_ you down
fast enough, but he wouldnt _let_ you down. Old Anderson is badly cut up
about it.

Whos Anderson?

Chap with property out there. He belongs here. He was goin to meet Levy on
Tuesday. Hes afraid those railway people will get in now, and then itll be
all U. P.

Whos runnin the railway people over here? inquired Lord Peter.

Yankee blighter, John P. Milligan. Hes got an option, or says he has. You
cant trust these brutes.

Cant Anderson hold on?

Anderson isnt Levy. Hasnt got the shekels. Besides, hes only one. Levy
covers the groundhe could boycott Milligans beastly railway if he liked.
Thats where hes got the pull, you see.

Blieve I met the Milligan man somewhere, said 77 Lord Peter, thoughtfully.
Aint he a hulking brute with black hair and a beard?

Youre thinkin of somebody else, said the Honourable Freddy. Milligan
dont stand any higher than I do, unless you call five-feet-ten hulkingand
hes bald, anyway.

Lord Peter considered this over the Gorgonzola. Then he said: Didnt know
Levy had a charmin daughter.

Oh, yes, said the Honourable Freddy, with an elaborate detachment. Met her
and Mamma last year abroad. Thats how I got to know the old man. Hes been
very decent. Let me into this Argentine business on the ground floor, dont
you know?

Well, said Lord Peter, you might do worse. Moneys money, aint it? And
Lady Levy is quite a redeemin point. At least, my mother knew her people.

Oh, _shes_ all right, said the Honourable Freddy, and the old mans
nothing to be ashamed of nowadays. Hes self-made, of course, but he dont
pretend to be anything else. No side. Toddles off to business on a 96 bus
every morning. Cant make up my mind to taxis, my boy, he says. I had to
look at every halfpenny when I was a young man, and I cant get out of the way
of it now. Though, if hes takin his family out, nothings too good.
Rachelthats the girlalways laughs at the old mans little economies.

I suppose theyve sent for Lady Levy, said Lord Peter.

I suppose so, agreed the other. Id better pop 78 round and express
sympathy or somethin, what? Wouldnt look well not to, dyou think? But its
deuced awkward. What am I to say?

I dont think it matters much what you say, said Lord Peter, helpfully. I
should ask if you can do anything.

Thanks, said the lover, I will. Energetic young man. Count on me. Always at
your service. Ring me up any time of the day or night. Thats the line to
take, dont you think?

Thats the idea, said Lord Peter.

Mr. John P. Milligan, the London representative of the great Milligan railroad
and shipping company, was dictating code cables to his secretary in an office
in Lombard Street, when a card was brought up to him, bearing the simple
legend:

LORD PETER WIMSEY  
_Marlborough Club_

Mr. Milligan was annoyed at the interruption, but, like many of his nation, if
he had a weak point, it was the British aristocracy. He postponed for a few
minutes the elimination from the map of a modest but promising farm, and
directed that the visitor should be shown up.

Good-afternoon, said that nobleman, ambling genially in, its most
uncommonly good of you to let me come round wastin your time like this. Ill
try not to be too long about it, though Im not awfully good at comin to the
point. My brother never would 79 let me stand for the county, yknowsaid I
wandered on so nobodyd know what I was talkin about.

Pleased to meet you, Lord Wimsey, said Mr. Milligan. Wont you take a
seat?

Thanks, said Lord Peter, but Im not a peer, you knowthats my brother
Denver. My names Peter. Its a silly name, I always think, so old-world and
full of homely virtue and that sort of thing, but my godfathers and godmothers
in my baptism are responsible for that, I suppose, officiallywhich is rather
hard on them, you know, as they didnt actually choose it. But we always have
a Peter, after the third duke, who betrayed five kings somewhere about the
Wars of the Roses, though come to think of it, it aint anything to be proud
of. Still, one has to make the best of it.

Mr. Milligan, thus ingeniously placed at that disadvantage which attends
ignorance, manoeuvred for position, and offered his interrupter a Corona
Corona.

Thanks, awfully, said Lord Peter, though you really mustnt tempt me to
stay here burblin all afternoon. By Jove, Mr. Milligan, if you offer people
such comfortable chairs and cigars like these, I wonder they dont come an
live in your office. He added mentally: I wish to goodness I could get those
long-toed boots off you. Hows a man to know the size of your feet? And a head
like a potato. Its enough to make one swear.

Say now, Lord Peter, said Mr. Milligan, can I do anything for you?

Well, dyou know, said Lord Peter, Im wonderin if you would. Its damned
cheek to ask you, 80 but fact is, its my mother, you know. Wonderful woman,
but dont realize what it means, demands on the time of a busy man like you.
We dont understand hustle over here, you know, Mr. Milligan.

Now dont you mention that, said Mr. Milligan; Id be surely charmed to do
anything to oblige the Duchess.

He felt a momentary qualm as to whether a dukes mother were also a duchess,
but breathed more freely as Lord Peter went on:

Thanksthats uncommonly good of you. Well, now, its like this. My
mothermost energetic, self-sacrificin woman, dont you see, is thinkin of
gettin up a sort of a charity bazaar down at Denver this winter, in aid of
the church roof, yknow. Very sad case, Mr. Milliganfine old antiqueearly
English windows and decorated angel roof, and all thatall tumblin to pieces,
rain pourin in and so onvicar catchin rheumatism at early service, owin to
the draught blowin in over the altaryou know the sort of thing. Theyve got
a man down startin on itlittle beggar called Thippslives with an aged
mother in Batterseavulgar little beast, but quite good on angel roofs and
things, Im told.

At this point, Lord Peter watched his interlocutor narrowly, but finding that
this rigmarole produced in him no reaction more startling than polite interest
tinged with faint bewilderment, he abandoned this line of investigation, and
proceeded:

I say, I beg your pardon, frightfullyIm afraid Im bein beastly long-
winded. Fact is, my mother 81 is gettin up this bazaar, and she thought itd
be an awfully interestin side-show to have some lecturessort of little
talks, yknowby eminent business men of all nations. How I Did It kind of
touch, yknowA Drop of Oil with a Kerosene KingCash Conscience and Cocoa
and so on. It would interest people down there no end. You see, all my
mothers friends will be there, and weve none of us any moneynot what youd
call money, I meanI expect our incomes wouldnt pay your telephone calls,
would they?but we like awfully to hear about the people who can make money.
Gives us a sort of uplifted feelin, dont you know. Well, anyway, I mean, my
motherd be frightfully pleased and grateful to you, Mr. Milligan, if youd
come down and give us a few words as a representative American. It neednt
take more than ten minutes or so, yknow, because the local people cant
understand much beyond shootin and huntin, and my mothers crowd cant keep
their minds on anythin more than ten minutes together, but wed really
appreciate it very much if youd come and stay a day or two and just give us a
little breezy word on the almighty dollar.

Why, yes, said Mr. Milligan, Id like to, Lord Peter. Its kind of the
Duchess to suggest it. Its a very sad thing when these fine old antiques
begin to wear out. Ill come with great pleasure. And perhaps youd be kind
enough to accept a little donation to the Restoration Fund.

This unexpected development nearly brought Lord Peter up all standing. To
pump, by means of an 82 ingenious lie, a hospitable gentleman whom you are
inclined to suspect of a peculiarly malicious murder, and to accept from him
in the course of the proceedings a large cheque for a charitable object, has
something about it unpalatable to any but the hardened Secret Service agent.
Lord Peter temporized.

Thats awfully decent of you, he said. Im sure theyd be no end grateful.
But youd better not give it to me, you know. I might spend it, or lose it.
Im not very reliable, Im afraid. The vicars the right personthe Rev.
Constantine Throgmorton, St. John-before-the-Latin-Gate Vicarage, Dukes
Denver, if you like to send it there.

I will, said Mr. Milligan. Will you write it out now for a thousand pounds,
Scoot, in case it slips my mind later?

The secretary, a sandy-haired young man with a long chin and no eyebrows,
silently did as he was requested. Lord Peter looked from the bald head of Mr.
Milligan to the red head of the secretary, hardened his heart and tried again.

Well, Im no end grateful to you, Mr. Milligan, and soll my mother be when I
tell her. Ill let you know the date of the bazaarits not quite settled yet,
and Ive got to see some other business men, dont you know. I thought of
askin someone from one of the big newspaper combines to represent British
advertisin talent, what?and a friend of mine promises me a leadin German
financiervery interestin if there aint too much feelin against it down in
the country, and Ill have to find somebody or other to 83 do the Hebrew point
of view. I thought of askin Levy, yknow, only hes floated off in this
inconvenient way.

Yes, said Mr. Milligan, thats a very curious thing, though I dont mind
saying, Lord Peter, that its a convenience to me. He had a cinch on my
railroad combine, but Id nothing against him personally, and if he turns up
after Ive brought off a little deal Ive got on, Ill be happy to give him
the right hand of welcome.

A vision passed through Lord Peters mind of Sir Reuben kept somewhere in
custody till a financial crisis was over. This was exceedingly possible, and
far more agreeable than his earlier conjecture; it also agreed better with the
impression he was forming of Mr. Milligan.

Well, its a rum go, said Lord Peter, but I daresay he had his reasons.
Much better not inquire into peoples reasons, yknow, what? Specially as a
police friend of mine whos connected with the case says the old johnnie dyed
his hair before he went.

Out of the tail of his eye, Lord Peter saw the redheaded secretary add up five
columns of figures simultaneously and jot down the answer.

Dyed his hair, did he? said Mr. Milligan.

Dyed it red, said Lord Peter. The secretary looked up. Odd thing is,
continued Wimsey, they cant lay hands on the bottle. Somethin fishy there,
dont you think, what?

The secretarys interest seemed to have evaporated. He inserted a fresh sheet
into his looseleaf ledger, and 84 carried forward a row of digits from the
preceding page.

I daresay theres nothin in it, said Lord Peter, rising to go. Well, its
uncommonly good of you to be bothered with me like this, Mr. Milliganmy
motherll be no end pleased. Shell write you about the date.

Im charmed, said Mr. Milligan. Very pleased to have met you.

Mr. Scoot rose silently to open the door, uncoiling as he did so a portentous
length of thin leg, hitherto hidden by the desk. With a mental sigh Lord Peter
estimated him at six-foot-four.

Its a pity I cant put Scoots head on Milligans shoulders, said Lord
Peter, emerging into the swirl of the city. And what _will_ my mother say?
85

##  CHAPTER V

Mr. Parker was a bachelor, and occupied a Georgian but inconvenient flat at
No. 12A Great Ormond Street, for which he paid a pound a week. His exertions
in the cause of civilization were rewarded, not by the gift of diamond rings
from empresses or munificent cheques from grateful Prime Ministers, but by a
modest, though sufficient, salary, drawn from the pockets of the British
taxpayer. He awoke, after a long day of arduous and inconclusive labour, to
the smell of burnt porridge. Through his bedroom window, hygienically open top
and bottom, a raw fog was rolling slowly in, and the sight of a pair of winter
pants, flung hastily over a chair the previous night, fretted him with a sense
of the sordid absurdity of the human form. The telephone bell rang, and he
crawled wretchedly out of bed and into the sitting-room, where Mrs. Munns, who
did for him by the day, was laying the table, sneezing as she went.

Mr. Bunter was speaking.

His lordship says hed be very glad, sir, if you could make it convenient to
step round to breakfast.

If the odour of kidneys and bacon had been wafted along the wire, Mr. Parker
could not have experienced a more vivid sense of consolation.

Tell his lordship Ill be with him in half an hour, 86 he said, thankfully,
and plunging into the bathroom, which was also the kitchen, he informed Mrs.
Munns, who was just making tea from a kettle which had gone off the boil, that
he should be out to breakfast.

You can take the porridge home for the family, he added, viciously, and
flung off his dressing-gown with such determination that Mrs. Munns could only
scuttle away with a snort.

A 19 bus deposited him in Piccadilly only fifteen minutes later than his
rather sanguine impulse had prompted him to suggest, and Mr. Bunter served him
with glorious food, incomparable coffee, and the _Daily Mail_ before a blazing
fire of wood and coal. A distant voice singing the et iterum venturus est
from Bachs Mass in B minor proclaimed that for the owner of the flat
cleanliness and godliness met at least once a day, and presently Lord Peter
roamed in, moist and verbena-scented, in a bath-robe cheerfully patterned with
unnaturally variegated peacocks.

Mornin, old dear, said that gentleman. Beast of a day, aint it? Very good
of you to trundle out in it, but I had a letter I wanted you to see, and I
hadnt the energy to come round to your place. Bunter and Ive been makin a
night of it.

Whats the letter? asked Parker.

Never talk business with your mouth full, said Lord Peter, reprovingly;
have some Oxford marmaladeand then Ill show you my Dante; they brought it
round last night. What ought I to read this morning, Bunter? 87

Lord Eriths collection is going to be sold, my lord. There is a column about
it in the _Morning Post_. I think your lordship should look at this review of
Sir Julian Frekes new book on The Physiological Bases of the Conscience in
the _Times Literary Supplement_. Then there is a very singular little burglary
in the _Chronicle_ , my lord, and an attack on titled families in the _Herald_
rather ill-written, if I may say so, but not without unconscious humour which
your lordship will appreciate.

All right, give me that and the burglary, said his lordship.

I have looked over the other papers, pursued Mr. Bunter, indicating a
formidable pile, and marked your lordships after-breakfast reading.

Oh, pray dont allude to it, said Lord Peter; you take my appetite away.

There was silence, but for the crunching of toast and the crackling of paper.

I see they adjourned the inquest, said Parker presently.

Nothing else to do, said Lord Peter; but Lady Levy arrived last night, and
will have to go and fail to identify the body this morning for Suggs
benefit.

Time, too, said Mr. Parker shortly.

Silence fell again.

I dont think much of your burglary, Bunter, said Lord Peter. Competent, of
course, but no imagination. I want imagination in a criminal. Wheres the
_Morning Post_? 88

After a further silence, Lord Peter said: You might send for the catalogue,
Bunter, that Apollonios Rhodios[C] might be worth looking at. No, Im damned
if Im going to stodge through that review, but you can stick the book on the
library list if you like. His book on crime was entertainin enough as far as
it went, but the fellows got a bee in his bonnet. Thinks Gods a secretion of
the liverall right once in a way, but theres no need to keep on about it.
Theres nothing you cant prove if your outlook is only sufficiently limited.
Look at Sugg.

I beg your pardon, said Parker; I wasnt attending. Argentines are
steadying a little, I see.

Milligan, said Lord Peter.

Oils in a bad way. Levys made a difference there. That funny little boom in
Peruvians that came on just before he disappeared has died away again. I
wonder if he was concerned in it. Dyou know at all?

Ill find out, said Lord Peter. What was it?

Oh, an absolutely dud enterprise that hadnt been heard of for years. It
suddenly took a little lease of life last week. I happened to notice it
because my mother got let in for a couple of hundred shares a long time ago.
It never paid a dividend. Now its petered out again.

Wimsey pushed his plate aside and lit a pipe.

Having finished, I dont mind doing some work, he said. How did you get on
yesterday? 89

I didnt, replied Parker. I sleuthed up and down those flats in my own
bodily shape and two different disguises. I was a gas-meter man and a
collector for a Home for Lost Doggies, and I didnt get a thing to go on,
except a servant in the top flat at the Battersea Bridge Road end of the row
who said she thought she heard a bump on the roof one night. Asked which
night, she couldnt rightly say. Asked if it was Monday night, she thought it
very likely. Asked if it mightnt have been in that high wind on Saturday
night that blew my chimney-pot off, she couldnt say but what it might have
been. Asked if she was sure it was on the roof and not inside the flat, said
to be sure they did find a picture tumbled down next morning. Very suggestible
girl. I saw your friends, Mr. and Mrs. Appledore, who received me coldly, but
could make no definite complaint about Thipps except that his mother dropped
her hs, and that he once called on them uninvited, armed with a pamphlet
about anti-vivisection. The Indian Colonel on the first floor was loud, but
unexpectedly friendly. He gave me Indian curry for supper and some very good
whisky, but hes a sort of hermit, and all _he_ could tell me was that he
couldnt stand Mrs. Appledore.

Did you get nothing at the house?

Only Levys private diary. I brought it away with me. Here it is. It doesnt
tell one much, though. Its full of entries like: Tom and Annie to dinner;
and My dear wifes birthday; gave her an old opal ring; 90 Mr. Arbuthnot
dropped in to tea; he wants to marry Rachel, but I should like someone
steadier for my treasure. Still, I thought it would show who came to the
house and so on. He evidently wrote it up at night. Theres no entry for
Monday.

I expect itll be useful, said Lord Peter, turning over the pages. Poor old
buffer. I say, Im not so certain now he was done away with.

He detailed to Mr. Parker his days work.

Arbuthnot? said Parker. Is that the Arbuthnot of the diary?

I suppose so. I hunted him up because I knew he was fond of fooling round the
Stock Exchange. As for Milligan, he _looks_ all right, but I believe hes
pretty ruthless in business and you never can tell. Then theres the red-
haired secretarylightnin calculator man with a face like a fish, keeps on
sayin nuthingot the Tarbaby in his family tree, I should think. Milligans
got a jolly good motive for, at any rate, suspendin Levy for a few days. Then
theres the new man.

What new man?

Ah, thats the letter I mentioned to you. Where did I put it? Here we are.
Good parchment paper, printed address of solicitors office in Salisbury, and
postmark to correspond. Very precisely written with a fine nib by an elderly
business man of old-fashioned habits.

Parker took the letter and read: 91

Crimplesham and Wicks,  
_Solicitors_ ,  
Milford Hill, Salisbury,  
17 November, 192.

Sir,

With reference to your advertisement today in the personal column of _The
Times_ , I am disposed to believe that the eyeglasses and chain in question
may be those I lost on the L. B. & S. C. Electric Railway while visiting
London last Monday. I left Victoria by the 5.45 train, and did not notice my
loss till I arrived at Balham. This indication and the opticians
specification of the glasses, which I enclose, should suffice at once as an
identification and a guarantee of my bona fides. If the glasses should prove
to be mine, I should be greatly obliged to you if you would kindly forward
them to me by registered post, as the chain was a present from my daughter,
and is one of my dearest possessions.

Thanking you in advance for this kindness, and regretting the trouble to which
I shall be putting you, I am,

Yours very truly,  
Thos. Crimplesham

Lord Peter Wimsey,  
110, Piccadilly, W.  
(Encl.)

Dear me, said Parker, this is what you might call unexpected.

Either it is some extraordinary misunderstanding, said Lord Peter, or Mr.
Crimplesham is a very bold and cunning villain. Or possibly, of course, they
are the wrong glasses. We may as well get a ruling on that point at once. I
suppose the glasses are at the Yard. I wish youd just ring em up and ask em
to 92 send round an opticians description of them at onceand you might ask
at the same time whether its a very common prescription.

Right you are, said Parker, and took the receiver off its hook.

And now, said his friend, when the message was delivered, just come into
the library for a minute.

On the library table, Lord Peter had spread out a series of bromide prints,
some dry, some damp, and some but half-washed.

These little ones are the originals of the photos weve been taking, said
Lord Peter, and these big ones are enlargements all made to precisely the
same scale. This one here is the footmark on the linoleum; well put that by
itself at present. Now these finger-prints can be divided into five lots. Ive
numbered em on the printssee?and made a list:

A. The finger-prints of Levy himself, off his little bedside book and his
hair-brushthis and thisyou cant mistake the little scar on the thumb.

B. The smudges made by the gloved fingers of the man who slept in Levys room
on Monday night. They show clearly on the water-bottle and on the
bootssuperimposed on Levys. They are very distinct on the bootssurprisingly
so for gloved hands, and I deduce that the gloves were rubber ones and had
recently been in water.

Heres another interestin point. Levy walked in the rain on Monday night, as
we know, and these dark marks are mud-splashes. You see they lie _over_ Levys
finger-prints in every case. Now see: on this 93 left boot we find the
strangers thumb-mark _over_ the mud on the leather above the heel. Thats a
funny place to find a thumb-mark on a boot, isnt it? That is, if Levy took
off his own boots. But its the place where youd expect to see it if somebody
forcibly removed his boots for him. Again, most of the strangers finger-marks
come _over_ the mud-marks, but here is one splash of mud which comes on top of
them again. Which makes me infer that the stranger came back to Park Lane,
wearing Levys boots, in a cab, carriage or car, but that at some point or
other he walked a little wayjust enough to tread in a puddle and get a splash
on the boots. What do you say?

Very pretty, said Parker. A bit intricate, though, and the marks are not
all that I could wish a finger-print to be.

Well, I wont lay too much stress on it. But it fits in with our previous
ideas. Now lets turn to:

C. The prints obligingly left by my own particular villain on the further
edge of Thippss bath, where you spotted them, and I ought to be scourged for
not having spotted them. The left hand, you notice, the base of the palm and
the fingers, but not the tips, looking as though he had steadied himself on
the edge of the bath while leaning down to adjust something at the bottom, the
pince-nez perhaps. Gloved, you see, but showing no ridge or seam of any kindI
say rubber, you say rubber. Thats that. Now see here:

D and E come off a visiting-card of mine. Theres this thing at the corner,
marked F, but that you can disregard; in the original document its a sticky
mark 94 left by the thumb of the youth who took it from me, after first
removing a piece of chewing-gum from his teeth with his finger to tell me that
Mr. Milligan might or might not be disengaged. D and E are the thumb-marks of
Mr. Milligan and his red-haired secretary. Im not clear which is which, but I
saw the youth with the chewing-gum hand the card to the secretary, and when I
got into the inner shrine I saw John P. Milligan standing with it in his hand,
so its one or the other, and for the moment its immaterial to our purpose
which is which. I boned the card from the table when I left.

Well, now, Parker, heres whats been keeping Bunter and me up till the small
hours. Ive measured and measured every way backwards and forwards till my
heads spinnin, and Ive stared till Im nearly blind, but Im hanged if I
can make my mind up. Question 1. Is C identical with B? Question 2. Is D or E
identical with B? Theres nothing to go on but the size and shape, of course,
and the marks are so faintwhat do you think?

Parker shook his head doubtfully.

I think E might almost be put out of the question, he said; it seems such
an excessively long and narrow thumb. But I think there is a decided
resemblance between the span of B on the water-bottle and C on the bath. And I
dont see any reason why D shouldnt be the same as B, only theres so little
to judge from.

Your untutored judgment and my measurements have brought us both to the same
conclusionif you 95 can call it a conclusion, said Lord Peter, bitterly.

Another thing, said Parker. Why on earth should we try to connect B with C?
The fact that you and I happen to be friends doesnt make it necessary to
conclude that the two cases we happen to be interested in have any organic
connection with one another. Why should they? The only person who thinks they
have is Sugg, and hes nothing to go by. It would be different if there were
any truth in the suggestion that the man in the bath was Levy, but we know for
a certainty he wasnt. Its ridiculous to suppose that the same man was
employed in committing two totally distinct crimes on the same night, one in
Battersea and the other in Park Lane.

I know, said Wimsey, though of course we mustnt forget that Levy _was_ in
Battersea at the time, and now we know he didnt return home at twelve as was
supposed, weve no reason to think he ever left Battersea at all.

True. But there are other places in Battersea besides Thippss bathroom. And
he _wasnt_ in Thippss bathroom. In fact, come to think of it, thats the one
place in the universe where we know definitely that he wasnt. So whats
Thippss bath got to do with it?

I dont know, said Lord Peter. Well, perhaps we shall get something better
to go on today.

He leaned back in his chair and smoked thoughtfully for some time over the
papers which Bunter had marked for him.

Theyve got you out in the limelight, he said. 96 Thank Heaven, Sugg hates
me too much to give me any publicity. What a dull Agony Column! Darling
PipseyCome back soon to your distracted Popseyand the usual young man in
need of financial assistance, and the usual injunction to Remember thy
Creator in the days of thy youth. Hullo! theres the bell. Oh, its our
answer from Scotland Yard.

The note from Scotland Yard enclosed an opticians specification identical
with that sent by Mr. Crimplesham, and added that it was an unusual one, owing
to the peculiar strength of the lenses and the marked difference between the
sight of the two eyes.

Thats good enough, said Parker.

Yes, said Wimsey. Then Possibility No. 3 is knocked on the head. There
remain Possibility No. 1: Accident or Misunderstanding, and No. 2: Deliberate
Villainy, of a remarkably bold and calculating kindof a kind, in fact,
characteristic of the author or authors of our two problems. Following the
methods inculcated at that University of which I have the honour to be a
member, we will now examine severally the various suggestions afforded by
Possibility No. 2. This Possibility may be again subdivided into two or more
Hypotheses. On Hypothesis 1 (strongly advocated by my distinguished colleague
Professor Snupshed), the criminal, whom we may designate as X, is not
identical with Crimplesham, but is using the name of Crimplesham as his
shield, or aegis. This hypothesis may be further subdivided into two
alternatives. Alternative A: Crimplesham is an innocent and unconscious
accomplice, and X is in his employment. 97 X writes in Crimpleshams name on
Crimpleshams office-paper and obtains that the object in question, i.e., the
eyeglasses, be despatched to Crimpleshams address. He is in a position to
intercept the parcel before it reaches Crimplesham. The presumption is that X
is Crimpleshams charwoman, office-boy, clerk, secretary or porter. This
offers a wide field of investigation. The method of inquiry will be to
interview Crimplesham and discover whether he sent the letter, and if not, who
has access to his correspondence. Alternative B: Crimplesham is under Xs
influence or in his power, and has been induced to write the letter by ( _a_ )
bribery, ( _b_ ) misrepresentation or ( _c_ ) threats. X may in that case be a
persuasive relation or friend, or else a creditor, blackmailer or assassin;
Crimplesham, on the other hand, is obviously venal or a fool. The method of
inquiry in this case, I would tentatively suggest, is again to interview
Crimplesham, put the facts of the case strongly before him, and assure him in
the most intimidating terms that he is liable to a prolonged term of penal
servitude as an accessory after the fact in the crime of murder Ah-hem!
Trusting, gentlemen, that you have followed me thus far, we will pass to the
consideration of Hypothesis No. 2, to which I personally incline, and
according to which X is identical with Crimplesham.

In this case, Crimplesham, who is, in the words of an English classic, a man-
of-infinite-resource-and-sagacity, correctly deduces that, of all people, the
last whom we shall expect to find answering our advertisement 98 is the
criminal himself. Accordingly, he plays a bold game of bluff. He invents an
occasion on which the glasses may very easily have been lost or stolen, and
applies for them. If confronted, nobody will be more astonished than he to
learn where they were found. He will produce witnesses to prove that he left
Victoria at 5.45 and emerged from the train at Balham at the scheduled time,
and sat up all Monday night playing chess with a respectable gentleman well
known in Balham. In this case, the method of inquiry will be to pump the
respectable gentleman in Balham, and if he should happen to be a single
gentleman with a deaf housekeeper, it may be no easy matter to impugn the
alibi, since, outside detective romances, few ticket-collectors and bus-
conductors keep an exact remembrance of all the passengers passing between
Balham and London on any and every evening of the week.

Finally, gentlemen, I will frankly point out the weak point of all these
hypotheses, namely: that none of them offers any explanation as to why the
incriminating article was left so conspicuously on the body in the first
instance.

Mr. Parker had listened with commendable patience to this academic exposition.

Might not X, he suggested, be an enemy of Crimpleshams, who designed to
throw suspicion upon him?

He might. In that case he should be easy to discover, since he obviously
lives in close proximity to Crimplesham and his glasses, and Crimplesham in
fear 99 of his life will then be a valuable ally for the prosecution.

How about the first possibility of all, misunderstanding or accident?

Well! Well, for purposes of discussion, nothing, because it really doesnt
afford any data for discussion.

In any case, said Parker, the obvious course appears to be to go to
Salisbury.

That seems indicated, said Lord Peter.

Very well, said the detective, is it to be you or me or both of us?

It is to be me, said Lord Peter, and that for two reasons. First, because,
if (by Possibility No. 2, Hypothesis 1, Alternative A) Crimplesham is an
innocent catspaw, the person who put in the advertisement is the proper person
to hand over the property. Secondly, because, if we are to adopt Hypothesis 2,
we must not overlook the sinister possibility that Crimplesham-X is laying a
careful trap to rid himself of the person who so unwarily advertised in the
daily press his interest in the solution of the Battersea Park mystery.

That appears to me to be an argument for our both going, objected the
detective.

Far from it, said Lord Peter. Why play into the hands of Crimplesham-X by
delivering over to him the only two men in London with the evidence, such as
it is, and shall I say the wits, to connect him with the Battersea body?

But if we told the Yard where we were going, and 100 we both got nobbled,
said Mr. Parker, it would afford strong presumptive evidence of Crimpleshams
guilt, and anyhow, if he didnt get hanged for murdering the man in the bath
hed at least get hanged for murdering us.

Well, said Lord Peter, if he only murdered me you could still hang
himwhats the good of wasting a sound, marriageable young male like yourself?
Besides, how about old Levy? If youre incapacitated, do you think anybody
else is going to find him?

But we could frighten Crimplesham by threatening him with the Yard.

Well, dash it all, if it comes to that, I can frighten him by threatening him
with _you_ , which, seeing you hold what evidence there is, is much more to
the point. And, then, suppose its a wild-goose chase after all, youll have
wasted time when you might have been getting on with the case. There are
several things that need doing.

Well, said Parker, silenced but reluctant, why cant I go, in that case?

Bosh! said Lord Peter. I am retained (by old Mrs. Thipps, for whom I
entertain the greatest respect) to deal with this case, and its only by
courtesy I allow you to have anything to do with it.

Mr. Parker groaned.

Will you at least take Bunter? he said.

In deference to your feelings, replied Lord Peter, I will take Bunter,
though he could be far more usefully employed taking photographs or
overhauling 101 my wardrobe. When is there a good train to Salisbury, Bunter?

There is an excellent train at 10.50, my lord.

Kindly make arrangements to catch it, said Lord Peter, throwing off his
bath-robe and trailing away with it into his bedroom. And, Parkerif you have
nothing else to do you might get hold of Levys secretary and look into that
little matter of the Peruvian oil.

Lord Peter took with him, for light reading in the train, Sir Reuben Levys
diary. It was a simple, and in the light of recent facts, rather a pathetic
document. The terrible fighter of the Stock Exchange, who could with one nod
set the surly bear dancing, or bring the savage bull to feed out of his hand,
whose breath devastated whole districts with famine or swept financial
potentates from their seats, was revealed in private life as kindly, domestic,
innocently proud of himself and his belongings, confiding, generous and a
little dull. His own small economies were duly chronicled side by side with
extravagant presents to his wife and daughter. Small incidents of household
routine appeared, such as: Man came to mend the conservatory roof, or The
new butler (Simpson) has arrived, recommended by the Goldbergs. I think he
will be satisfactory. All visitors and entertainments were duly entered, from
a very magnificent lunch to Lord Dewsbury, the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
and Dr. Jabez K. Wort, the American plenipotentiary, through a series of
diplomatic 102 dinners to eminent financiers, down to intimate family
gatherings of persons designated by Christian names or nicknames. About May
there came a mention of Lady Levys nerves, and further reference was made to
the subject in subsequent months. In September it was stated that Freke came
to see my dear wife and advised complete rest and change of scene. She thinks
of going abroad with Rachel. The name of the famous nerve-specialist occurred
as a diner or luncher about once a month, and it came into Lord Peters mind
that Freke would be a good person to consult about Levy himself. People
sometimes tell things to the doctor, he murmured to himself. And, by Jove!
if Levy was simply going round to see Freke on Monday night, that rather
disposes of the Battersea incident, doesnt it? He made a note to look up Sir
Julian and turned on further. On September 18th, Lady Levy and her daughter
had left for the south of France. Then suddenly, under the date October 5th,
Lord Peter found what he was looking for: Goldberg, Skriner and Milligan to
dinner.

There was the evidence that Milligan had been in that house. There had been a
formal entertainmenta meeting as of two duellists shaking hands before the
fight. Skriner was a well-known picture-dealer; Lord Peter imagined an after-
dinner excursion upstairs to see the two Corots in the drawing-room, and the
portrait of the oldest Levy girl, who had died at the age of sixteen. It was
by Augustus John, and hung in the bedroom. The name of the red-haired
secretary was nowhere mentioned, unless the initial S., occurring 103 in
another entry, referred to him. Throughout September and October, Anderson (of
Wyndhams) had been a frequent visitor.

Lord Peter shook his head over the diary, and turned to the consideration of
the Battersea Park mystery. Whereas in the Levy affair it was easy enough to
supply a motive for the crime, if crime it were, and the difficulty was to
discover the method of its carrying out and the whereabouts of the victim, in
the other case the chief obstacle to inquiry was the entire absence of any
imaginable motive. It was odd that, although the papers had carried news of
the affair from one end of the country to the other and a description of the
body had been sent to every police station in the country, nobody had as yet
come forward to identify the mysterious occupant of Mr. Thippss bath. It was
true that the description, which mentioned the clean-shaven chin, elegantly
cut hair and the pince-nez, was rather misleading, but on the other hand, the
police had managed to discover the number of molars missing, and the height,
complexion and other data were correctly enough stated, as also the date at
which death had presumably occurred. It seemed, however, as though the man had
melted out of society without leaving a gap or so much as a ripple. Assigning
a motive for the murder of a person without relations or antecedents or even
clothes is like trying to visualize the fourth dimensionadmirable exercise
for the imagination, but arduous and inconclusive. Even if the days interview
should disclose black spots in the past or present of Mr. Crimplesham, 104 how
were they to be brought into connection with a person apparently without a
past, and whose present was confined to the narrow limits of a bath and a
police mortuary?

Bunter, said Lord Peter, I beg that in the future you will restrain me from
starting two hares at once. These cases are gettin to be a strain on my
constitution. One hare has nowhere to run from, and the other has nowhere to
run to. Its a kind of mental D.T., Bunter. When this is over I shall turn
pussyfoot, forswear the police news, and take to an emollient diet of the
works of the late Charles Garvice.

It was its comparative proximity to Milford Hill that induced Lord Peter to
lunch at the Minster Hotel rather than at the White Hart or some other more
picturesquely situated hostel. It was not a lunch calculated to cheer his
mind; as in all Cathedral cities, the atmosphere of the Close pervades every
nook and corner of Salisbury, and no food in that city but seems faintly
flavoured with prayer-books. As he sat sadly consuming that impassive pale
substance known to the English as cheese unqualified (for there are cheeses
which go openly by their names, as Stilton, Camembert, Gruyre, Wensleydale or
Gorgonzola, but cheese is cheese and everywhere the same), he inquired of
the waiter the whereabouts of Mr. Crimpleshams office.

The waiter directed him to a house rather further up the street on the
opposite side, adding: But anybodyll 105 tell you, sir; Mr. Crimpleshams
very well known hereabouts.

Hes a good solicitor, I suppose? said Lord Peter.

Oh, yes, sir, said the waiter, you couldnt do better than trust to Mr.
Crimplesham, sir. Theres folk say hes old-fashioned, but Id rather have my
little bits of business done by Mr. Crimplesham than by one of these fly-away
young men. Not but what Mr. Crimpleshamll be retiring soon, sir, I dont
doubt, for he must be close on eighty, sir, if hes a day, but then theres
young Mr. Wicks to carry on the business, and hes a very nice, steady-like
young gentleman.

Is Mr. Crimplesham really as old as that? said Lord Peter. Dear me! He must
be very active for his years. A friend of mine was doing business with him in
town last week.

Wonderful active, sir, agreed the waiter, and with his game leg, too, youd
be surprised. But there, sir, I often think when a mans once past a certain
age, the older he grows the tougher he gets, and women the same or more so.

Very likely, said Lord Peter, calling up and dismissing the mental picture
of a gentleman of eighty with a game leg carrying a dead body over the roof of
a Battersea flat at midnight. Hes tough, sir, tough, is old Joey Bagstock,
tough and devilish sly, he added, thoughtlessly.

Indeed, sir? said the waiter. I couldnt say, Im sure. 106

I beg your pardon, said Lord Peter; I was quoting poetry. Very silly of me.
I got the habit at my mothers knee and I cant break myself of it.

No, sir, said the waiter, pocketing a liberal tip. Thank you very much,
sir. Youll find the house easy. Just afore you come to Penny-farthing Street,
sir, about two turnings off, on the right-hand side opposite.

Afraid that disposes of Crimplesham-X, said Lord Peter. Im rather sorry;
he was a fine sinister figure as I had pictured him. Still, his may yet be the
brain behind the handsthe aged spider sitting invisible in the centre of the
vibrating web, you know, Bunter.

Yes, my lord, said Bunter. They were walking up the street together.

There is the office over the way, pursued Lord Peter. I think, Bunter, you
might step into this little shop and purchase a sporting paper, and if I do
not emerge from the villains lairsay within three-quarters of an hour, you
may take such steps as your perspicuity may suggest.

Mr. Bunter turned into the shop as desired, and Lord Peter walked across and
rang the lawyers bell with decision.

The truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth is my long suit here, I
fancy, he murmured, and when the door was opened by a clerk he delivered over
his card with an unflinching air.

He was ushered immediately into a confidential-looking 107 office, obviously
furnished in the early years of Queen Victorias reign, and never altered
since. A lean, frail-looking old gentleman rose briskly from his chair as he
entered and limped forward to meet him.

My dear sir, exclaimed the lawyer, how extremely good of you to come in
person! Indeed, I am ashamed to have given you so much trouble. I trust you
were passing this way, and that my glasses have not put you to any great
inconvenience. Pray take a seat, Lord Peter. He peered gratefully at the
young man over a pince-nez obviously the fellow of that now adorning a dossier
in Scotland Yard.

Lord Peter sat down. The lawyer sat down. Lord Peter picked up a glass paper-
weight from the desk and weighed it thoughtfully in his hand. Subconsciously
he noted what an admirable set of finger-prints he was leaving upon it. He
replaced it with precision on the exact centre of a pile of letters.

Its quite all right, said Lord Peter. I was here on business. Very happy
to be of service to you. Very awkward to lose ones glasses, Mr. Crimplesham.

Yes, said the lawyer, I assure you I feel quite lost without them. I have
this pair, but they do not fit my nose so wellbesides, that chain has a great
sentimental value for me. I was terribly distressed on arriving at Balham to
find that I had lost them. I made inquiries of the railway, but to no purpose.
I feared they had been stolen. There were such crowds at Victoria, and the
carriage was packed with people 108 all the way to Balham. Did you come across
them in the train?

Well, no, said Lord Peter, I found them in rather an unexpected place. Do
you mind telling me if you recognized any of your fellow-travellers on that
occasion?

The lawyer stared at him.

Not a soul, he answered. Why do you ask?

Well, said Lord Peter, I thought perhaps thethe person with whom I found
them might have taken them for a joke.

The lawyer looked puzzled.

Did the person claim to be an acquaintance of mine? he inquired. I know
practically nobody in London, except the friend with whom I was staying in
Balham, Dr. Philpots, and I should be very greatly surprised at his practising
a jest upon me. He knew very well how distressed I was at the loss of the
glasses. My business was to attend a meeting of shareholders in Medlicotts
Bank, but the other gentlemen present were all personally unknown to me, and I
cannot think that any of them would take so great a liberty. In any case, he
added, as the glasses are here, I will not inquire too closely into the
manner of their restoration. I am deeply obliged to you for your trouble.

Lord Peter hesitated.

Pray forgive my seeming inquisitiveness, he said, but I must ask you
another question. It sounds rather melodramatic, Im afraid, but its this.
Are you aware that you have any enemyanyone, I 109 mean, who would profit by
yourerdecease or disgrace?

Mr. Crimplesham sat frozen into stony surprise and disapproval.

May I ask the meaning of this extraordinary question? he inquired stiffly.

Well, said Lord Peter, the circumstances are a little unusual. You may
recollect that my advertisement was addressed to the jeweller who sold the
chain.

That surprised me at the time, said Mr. Crimplesham, but I begin to think
your advertisement and your behaviour are all of a piece.

They are, said Lord Peter. As a matter of fact I did not expect the owner
of the glasses to answer my advertisement. Mr. Crimplesham, you have no doubt
read what the papers have to say about the Battersea Park mystery. Your
glasses are the pair that was found on the body, and they are now in the
possession of the police at Scotland Yard, as you may see by this. He placed
the specification of the glasses and the official note before Crimplesham.

Good God! exclaimed the lawyer. He glanced at the paper, and then looked
narrowly at Lord Peter.

Are you yourself connected with the police? he inquired.

Not officially, said Lord Peter. I am investigating the matter privately,
in the interests of one of the parties.

Mr. Crimplesham rose to his feet. 110

My good man, he said, this is a very impudent attempt, but blackmail is an
indictable offence, and I advise you to leave my office before you commit
yourself. He rang the bell.

I was afraid youd take it like that, said Lord Peter. It looks as though
this ought to have been my friend Detective Parkers job, after all. He laid
Parkers card on the table beside the specification, and added: If you should
wish to see me again, Mr. Crimplesham, before tomorrow morning, you will find
me at the Minster Hotel.

Mr. Crimplesham disdained to reply further than to direct the clerk who
entered to show this person out.

In the entrance Lord Peter brushed against a tall young man who was just
coming in, and who stared at him with surprised recognition. His face,
however, aroused no memories in Lord Peters mind, and that baffled nobleman,
calling out Bunter from the newspaper shop, departed to his hotel to get a
trunk-call through to Parker.

Meanwhile, in the office, the meditations of the indignant Mr. Crimplesham
were interrupted by the entrance of his junior partner.

I say, said the latter gentleman, has somebody done something really wicked
at last? Whatever brings such a distinguished amateur of crime on our sober
doorstep?

I have been the victim of a vulgar attempt at 111 blackmail, said the
lawyer; an individual passing himself off as Lord Peter Wimsey

But that _is_ Lord Peter Wimsey, said Mr. Wicks, theres no mistaking him.
I saw him give evidence in the Attenbury emerald case. Hes a big little pot
in his way, you know, and goes fishing with the head of Scotland Yard.

Oh, dear, said Mr. Crimplesham.

Fate arranged that the nerves of Mr. Crimplesham should be tried that
afternoon. When, escorted by Mr. Wicks, he arrived at the Minster Hotel, he
was informed by the porter that Lord Peter Wimsey had strolled out, mentioning
that he thought of attending Evensong. But his man is here, sir, he added,
if youd like to leave a message.

Mr. Wicks thought that on the whole it would be well to leave a message. Mr.
Bunter, on inquiry, was found to be sitting by the telephone, waiting for a
trunk-call. As Mr. Wicks addressed him the bell rang, and Mr. Bunter, politely
excusing himself, took down the receiver.

Hullo! he said. Is that Mr. Parker? Oh, thanks! Exchange! Exchange! Sorry,
can you put me through to Scotland Yard? Excuse me, gentlemen, keeping you
waiting.Exchange! all rightScotland YardHullo! Is that Scotland Yard?Is
Detective Parker round there?Can I speak to him?I shall have done in a
moment, gentlemen.Hullo! is that you, Mr. Parker? Lord Peter would be much
obliged if you could find it convenient to step down to Salisbury, sir. 112
Oh, no, sir, hes in excellent health, sirjust stepped round to hear
Evensong, siroh, no, I think tomorrow morning would do excellently, sir,
thank you, sir. 113

##  CHAPTER VI

It was, in fact, inconvenient for Mr. Parker to leave London. He had had to go
and see Lady Levy towards the end of the morning, and subsequently his plans
for the day had been thrown out of gear and his movements delayed by the
discovery that the adjourned inquest of Mr. Thippss unknown visitor was to be
held that afternoon, since nothing very definite seemed forthcoming from
Inspector Suggs inquiries. Jury and witnesses had been convened accordingly
for three oclock. Mr. Parker might altogether have missed the event, had he
not run against Sugg that morning at the Yard and extracted the information
from him as one would a reluctant tooth. Inspector Sugg, indeed, considered
Mr. Parker rather interfering; moreover, he was hand-in-glove with Lord Peter
Wimsey, and Inspector Sugg had no words for the interferingness of Lord Peter.
He could not, however, when directly questioned, deny that there was to be an
inquest that afternoon, nor could he prevent Mr. Parker from enjoying the
inalienable right of any interested British citizen to be present. At a little
before three, therefore, Mr. Parker was in his place, and amusing himself with
watching the efforts of those persons who arrived after the room was packed to
insinuate, bribe or bully themselves into a position of vantage. The Coroner,
a medical man of 114 precise habits and unimaginative aspect, arrived
punctually, and looking peevishly round at the crowded assembly, directed all
the windows to be opened, thus letting in a stream of drizzling fog upon the
heads of the unfortunates on that side of the room. This caused a commotion
and some expressions of disapproval, checked sternly by the Coroner, who said
that with the influenza about again an unventilated room was a death-trap;
that anybody who chose to object to open windows had the obvious remedy of
leaving the court, and further, that if any disturbance was made he would
clear the court. He then took a Formamint lozenge, and proceeded, after the
usual preliminaries, to call up fourteen good and lawful persons and swear
them diligently to inquire and a true presentment make of all matters touching
the death of the gentleman with the pince-nez and to give a true verdict
according to the evidence, so help them God. When an expostulation by a woman
juroran elderly lady in spectacles who kept a sweet-shop, and appeared to
wish she was back therehad been summarily quashed by the Coroner, the jury
departed to view the body. Mr. Parker gazed round again and identified the
unhappy Mr. Thipps and the girl Gladys led into an adjoining room under the
grim guard of the police. They were soon followed by a gaunt old lady in a
bonnet and mantle. With her, in a wonderful fur coat and a motor bonnet of
fascinating construction, came the Dowager Duchess of Denver, her quick, dark
eyes darting hither and thither about the crowd. The next moment they had 115
lighted on Mr. Parker, who had several times visited the Dower House, and she
nodded to him, and spoke to a policeman. Before long, a way opened magically
through the press, and Mr. Parker found himself accommodated with a front seat
just behind the Duchess, who greeted him charmingly, and said: Whats
happened to poor Peter? Parker began to explain, and the Coroner glanced
irritably in their direction. Somebody went up and whispered in his ear, at
which he coughed, and took another Formamint.

We came up by car, said the Duchessso tiresomesuch bad roads between
Denver and Gunbury St. Waltersand there were people coming to lunchI had to
put them offI couldnt let the old lady go alone, could I? By the way, such
an odd things happened about the Church Restoration Fundthe Vicaroh, dear,
here are these people coming back again; well, Ill tell you afterwardsdo
look at that woman looking shocked, and the girl in tweeds trying to look as
if she sat on undraped gentlemen every day of her lifeI dont mean
thatcorpses of coursebut one finds oneself being so Elizabethan
nowadayswhat an awful little man the coroner is, isnt he? Hes looking
daggers at medo you think hell dare to clear me out of the court or commit
me for what-you-may-call-it?

The first part of the evidence was not of great interest to Mr. Parker. The
wretched Mr. Thipps, who had caught cold in gaol, deposed in an unhappy croak
to having discovered the body when he went in to take his bath at eight
oclock. He had had such a 116 shock, he had to sit down and send the girl for
brandy. He had never seen the deceased before. He had no idea how he came
there.

Yes, he had been in Manchester the day before. He had arrived at St. Pancras
at ten oclock. He had cloak-roomed his bag. At this point Mr. Thipps became
very red, unhappy and confused, and glanced nervously about the court.

Now, Mr. Thipps, said the Coroner, briskly, we must have your movements
quite clear. You must appreciate the importance of the matter. You have chosen
to give evidence, which you need not have done, but having done so, you will
find it best to be perfectly explicit.

Yes, said Mr. Thipps faintly.

Have you cautioned this witness, officer? inquired the Coroner, turning
sharply to Inspector Sugg.

The Inspector replied that he had told Mr. Thipps that anything he said might
be used agin him at his trial. Mr. Thipps became ashy, and said in a bleating
voice that he adnthadnt meant to do anything that wasnt right.

This remark produced a mild sensation, and the Coroner became even more
acidulated in manner than before.

Is anybody representing Mr. Thipps? he asked, irritably. No? Did you not
explain to him that he couldthat he _ought_ to be represented? You did not?
Really, Inspector! Did you not know, Mr. Thipps, that you had a right to be
legally represented? 117

Mr. Thipps clung to a chair-back for support, and said, No, in a voice
barely audible.

It is incredible, said the Coroner, that so-called educated people should
be so ignorant of the legal procedure of their own country. This places us in
a very awkward position. I doubt, Inspector, whether I should permit the
prisonerMr. Thippsto give evidence at all. It is a delicate position.

The perspiration stood on Mrs. Thippss forehead.

Save us from our friends, whispered the Duchess to Parker. If that cough-
drop-devouring creature had openly instructed those fourteen peopleand what
unfinished-looking faces they haveso characteristic, I always think, of the
lower middle-class, rather like sheep, or calves head (boiled, I mean), to
bring in wilful murder against the poor little man, he couldnt have made
himself plainer.

He cant let him incriminate himself, you know, said Parker.

Stuff! said the Duchess. How could the man incriminate himself when he
never did anything in his life? You men never think of anything but your red
tape.

Meanwhile Mr. Thipps, wiping his brow with a handkerchief, had summoned up
courage. He stood up with a kind of weak dignity, like a small white rabbit
brought to bay.

I would rather tell you, he said, though its reelly very unpleasant for a
man in my position. But I reelly couldnt have it thought for a moment that
Id committed this dreadful crime. I assure you, 118 gentlemen, I _couldnt
bear_ that. No. Id rather tell you the truth, though Im afraid it places me
in rather awell, Ill tell you.

You fully understand the gravity of making such a statement, Mr. Thipps,
said the Coroner.

Quite, said Mr. Thipps. Its all rightImight I have a drink of water?

Take your time, said the Coroner, at the same time robbing his remark of all
conviction by an impatient glance at his watch.

Thank you, sir, said Mr. Thipps. Well, then, its true I got to St. Pancras
at ten. But there was a man in the carriage with me. Hed got in at Leicester.
I didnt recognise him at first, but he turned out to be an old school-fellow
of mine.

What was this gentlemans name? inquired the Coroner, his pencil poised.

Mr. Thipps shrank together visibly.

Im afraid I cant tell you that, he said. You seethat is, you _will_
seeit would get him into trouble, and I couldnt do thatno, I reelly
couldnt do that, not if my life depended on it. No! he added, as the ominous
pertinence of the last phrase smote upon him, Im sure I couldnt do that.

Well, well, said the Coroner.

The Duchess leaned over to Parker again. Im beginning quite to admire the
little man, she said.

Mr. Thipps resumed.

When we got to St. Pancras I was going home, but my friend said no. We hadnt
met for a long time and we ought toto make a night of it, was his 119
expression. I fear I was weak, and let him overpersuade me to accompany him to
one of his haunts. I use the word advisedly, said Mr. Thipps, and I assure
you, sir, that if I had known beforehand where we were going I never would
have set foot in the place.

I cloak-roomed my bag, for he did not like the notion of our being encumbered
with it, and we got into a taxicab and drove to the corner of Tottenham Court
Road and Oxford Street. We then walked a little way, and turned into a side
street (I do not recollect which) where there was an open door, with the light
shining out. There was a man at a counter, and my friend bought some tickets,
and I heard the man at the counter say something to him about Your friend,
meaning me, and my friend said, Oh, yes, hes been here before, havent you,
Alf? (which was what they called me at school), though I assure you,
sirhere Mr. Thipps grew very earnestI never had, and nothing in the world
should induce me to go to such a place again.

Well, we went down into a room underneath, where there were drinks, and my
friend had several, and made me take one or twothough I am an abstemious man
as a ruleand he talked to some other men and girls who were therea very
vulgar set of people, I thought them, though I wouldnt say but what some of
the young ladies were nice-looking enough. One of them sat on my friends knee
and called him a slow old thing, and told him to come onso we went into
another room, where there were a 120 lot of people dancing all these up-to-
date dances. My friend went and danced, and I sat on a sofa. One of the young
ladies came up to me and said, didnt I dance, and I said No, so she said
wouldnt I stand her a drink then. Youll stand us a drink then, darling,
that was what she said, and I said, Wasnt it after hours? and she said that
didnt matter. So I ordered the drinka gin and bitters it wasfor I didnt
like not to, the young lady seemed to expect it of me and I felt it wouldnt
be gentlemanly to refuse when she asked. But it went against my
consciencesuch a young girl as she wasand she put her arm round my neck
afterwards and kissed me just like as if she was paying for the drinkand it
reelly went to my eart, said Mr. Thipps, a little ambiguously, but with
uncommon emphasis.

Here somebody at the back said, Cheer-oh! and a sound was heard as of the
noisy smacking of lips.

Remove the person who made that improper noise, said the Coroner, with great
indignation. Go on, please, Mr. Thipps.

Well, said Mr. Thipps, about half-past twelve, as I should reckon, things
began to get a bit lively, and I was looking for my friend to say good-night,
not wishing to stay longer, as you will understand, when I saw him with one of
the young ladies, and they seemed to be getting on altogether too well, if you
follow me, my friend pulling the ribbons off her shoulder and the young lady
laughingand so on, said Mr. Thipps, hurriedly, so I thought Id just slip
quietly out, when I heard a scuffle and a shoutand 121 before I knew what was
happening there were half-a-dozen policemen in, and the lights went out, and
everybody stampeding and shoutingquite horrid, it was. I was knocked down in
the rush, and hit my head a nasty knock on a chairthat was where I got that
bruise they asked me aboutand I was dreadfully afraid Id never get away and
it would all come out, and perhaps my photograph in the papers, when someone
caught hold of meI think it was the young lady Id given the gin and bitters
toand she said, This way, and pushed me along a passage and out at the back
somewhere. So I ran through some streets, and found myself in Goodge Street,
and there I got a taxi and came home. I saw the account of the raid afterwards
in the papers, and saw my friend had escaped, and so, as it wasnt the sort of
thing I wanted made public, and I didnt want to get him into difficulties, I
just said nothing. But thats the truth.

Well, Mr. Thipps, said the Coroner, we shall be able to substantiate a
certain amount of this story. Your friends name

No, said Mr. Thipps, stoutly, not on any account.

Very good, said the Coroner. Now, can you tell us what time you did get
in?

About half-past one, I should think. Though reelly, I was so upset

Quite so. Did you go straight to bed?

Yes, I took my sandwich and glass of milk first. I thought it might settle my
inside, so to speak, added the witness, apologetically, not being accustomed
122 to alcohol so late at night and on an empty stomach, as you may say.

Quite so. Nobody sat up for you?

Nobody.

How long did you take getting to bed first and last?

Mr. Thipps thought it might have been half-an-hour.

Did you visit the bathroom before turning in?

No.

And you heard nothing in the night?

No. I fell fast asleep. I was rather agitated, so I took a little dose to
make me sleep, and what with being so tired and the milk and the dose, I just
tumbled right off and didnt wake till Gladys called me.

Further questioning elicited little from Mr. Thipps. Yes, the bathroom window
had been open when he went in in the morning, he was sure of that, and he had
spoken very sharply to the girl about it. He was ready to answer any
questions; he would be only too appyhappy to have this dreadful affair
sifted to the bottom.

Gladys Horrocks stated that she had been in Mr. Thippss employment about
three months. Her previous employers would speak to her character. It was her
duty to make the round of the flat at night, when she had seen Mrs. Thipps to
bed at ten. Yes, she remembered doing so on Monday evening. She had looked
into all the rooms. Did she recollect shutting the bathroom window that night?
Well, no, she couldnt swear to it, not in particular, but when Mr. 123 Thipps
called her into the bathroom in the morning it certainly _was_ open. She had
not been into the bathroom before Mr. Thipps went in. Well, yes, it had
happened that she had left that window open before, when anyone had been
aving a bath in the evening and ad left the blind down. Mrs. Thipps ad ad
a bath on Monday evening, Mondays was one of her regular bath nights. She was
very much afraid she adnt shut the window on Monday night, though she wished
her ead ad been cut off afore shed been so forgetful.

Here the witness burst into tears and was given some water, while the Coroner
refreshed himself with a third lozenge.

Recovering, witness stated that she had certainly looked into all the rooms
before going to bed. No, it was quite impossible for a body to be idden in
the flat without her seeing of it. She ad been in the kitchen all evening,
and there wasnt ardly room to keep the best dinner service there, let alone
a body. Old Mrs. Thipps sat in the drawing-room. Yes, she was sure shed been
into the dining-room. How? Because she put Mr. Thippss milk and sandwiches
there ready for him. There had been nothing in therethat she could swear to.
Nor yet in her own bedroom, nor in the all. Had she searched the bedroom
cupboard and the box-room? Well, no, not to say searched; she wasnt use to
searchin peoples ouses for skelintons every night. So that a man might have
concealed himself in the box-room or a wardrobe? She supposed he might. 124

In reply to a woman jurorwell, yes, she was walking out with a young man.
Williams was his name, Bill Williams,well, yes, William Williams, if they
insisted. He was a glazier by profession. Well, yes, he ad been in the flat
sometimes. Well, she supposed you might say he was acquainted with the flat.
Had she everno, she adnt, and if shed thought such a question was going to
be put to a respectable girl she wouldnt ave offered to give evidence. The
vicar of St. Marys would speak to her character and to Mr. Williamss. Last
time Mr. Williams was at the flat was a fortnight ago.

Well, no, it wasnt exactly the last time she ad seen Mr. Williams. Well,
yes, the last time was Mondaywell, yes, Monday night. Well, if she must tell
the truth, she must. Yes, the officer had cautioned her, but there wasnt any
arm in it, and it was better to lose her place than to be ung, though it was
a cruel shame a girl couldnt ave a bit of fun without a nasty corpse comin
in through the window to get er into difficulties. After she ad put Mrs.
Thipps to bed, she ad slipped out to go to the Plumbers and Glaziers Ball
at the Black Faced Ram. Mr. Williams ad met er and brought er back. E
could testify to where shed been and that there wasnt no arm in it. Shed
left before the end of the ball. It might ave been two oclock when she got
back. Shed got the keys of the flat from Mrs. Thippss drawer when Mrs.
Thipps wasnt looking. She ad asked leave to go, but couldnt get it, along
of Mr. Thipps bein away that night. She was bitterly sorry she ad beaved
so, and she was 125 sure shed been punished for it. She had eard nothing
suspicious when she came in. She had gone straight to bed without looking
round the flat. She wished she were dead.

No, Mr. and Mrs. Thipps didnt ardly ever ave any visitors; they kep
themselves very retired. She had found the outside door bolted that morning as
usual. She wouldnt never believe any arm of Mr. Thipps. Thank you, Miss
Horrocks. Call Georgiana Thipps, and the Coroner thought we had better light
the gas.

The examination of Mrs. Thipps provided more entertainment than enlightenment,
affording as it did an excellent example of the game called cross questions
and crooked answers. After fifteen minutes suffering, both in voice and
temper, the Coroner abandoned the struggle, leaving the lady with the last
word.

You neednt try to bully me, young man, said that octogenarian with spirit,
settin there spoilin your stomach with them nasty jujubes.

At this point a young man arose in court and demanded to give evidence. Having
explained that he was William Williams, glazier, he was sworn, and
corroborated the evidence of Gladys Horrocks in the matter of her presence at
the Black Faced Ram on the Monday night. They had returned to the flat
rather before two, he thought, but certainly later than 1.30. He was sorry
that he had persuaded Miss Horrocks to come out with him when she didnt 126
ought. He had observed nothing of a suspicious nature in Prince of Wales Road
at either visit.

Inspector Sugg gave evidence of having been called in at about half-past eight
on Monday morning. He had considered the girls manner to be suspicious and
had arrested her. On later information, leading him to suspect that the
deceased might have been murdered that night, he had arrested Mr. Thipps. He
had found no trace of breaking into the flat. There were marks on the bathroom
window-sill which pointed to somebody having got in that way. There were no
ladder marks or footmarks in the yard; the yard was paved with asphalt. He had
examined the roof, but found nothing on the roof. In his opinion the body had
been brought into the flat previously and concealed till the evening by
someone who had then gone out during the night by the bathroom window, with
the connivance of the girl. In that case, why should not the girl have let the
person out by the door? Well, it might have been so. Had he found traces of a
body or a man or both having been hidden in the flat? He found nothing to show
that they might _not_ have been so concealed. What was the evidence that led
him to suppose that the death had occurred that night?

At this point Inspector Sugg appeared uneasy, and endeavoured to retire upon
his professional dignity. On being pressed, however, he admitted that the
evidence in question had come to nothing.

_One of the jurors_ : Was it the case that any finger-marks had been left by
the criminal? 127

Some marks had been found on the bath, but the criminal had worn gloves.

_The Coroner_ : Do you draw any conclusion from this fact as to the experience
of the criminal?

_Inspector Sugg_ : Looks as if he was an old hand, sir.

_The Juror_ : Is that very consistent with the charge against Alfred Thipps,
Inspector?

The Inspector was silent.

_The Coroner_ : In the light of the evidence which you have just heard, do you
still press the charge against Alfred Thipps and Gladys Horrocks?

_Inspector Sugg_ : I consider the whole set-out highly suspicious. Thippss
story isnt corroborated, and as for the girl Horrocks, how do we know this
Williams aint in it as well?

_William Williams_ : Now, you drop that. I can bring a undred witnesses

_The Coroner_ : Silence, if you please. I am surprised, Inspector, that you
should make this suggestion in that manner. It is highly improper. By the way,
can you tell us whether a police raid was actually carried out on the Monday
night on any Night Club in the neighbourhood of St. Giless Circus?

_Inspector Sugg_ (sulkily): I believe there was something of the sort.

_The Coroner_ : You will, no doubt, inquire into the matter. I seem to
recollect having seen some mention of it in the newspapers. Thank you,
Inspector, that will do.

Several witnesses having appeared and testified to the characters of Mr.
Thipps and Gladys Horrocks, 128 the Coroner stated his intention of proceeding
to the medical evidence.

Sir Julian Freke.

There was considerable stir in the court as the great specialist walked up to
give evidence. He was not only a distinguished man, but a striking figure,
with his wide shoulders, upright carriage and leonine head. His manner as he
kissed the Book presented to him with the usual deprecatory mumble by the
Coroners officer, was that of a St. Paul condescending to humour the timid
mumbo-jumbo of superstitious Corinthians.

So handsome, I always think, whispered the Duchess to Mr. Parker; just
exactly like William Morris, with that bush of hair and beard and those
exciting eyes looking out of itso splendid, these dear men always devoted to
something or othernot but what I think socialism is a mistakeof course it
works with all those nice people, so good and happy in art linen and the
weather always perfectMorris, I mean, you knowbut so difficult in real life.
Science is differentIm sure if I had nerves I should go to Sir Julian just
to look at himeyes like that give one something to think about, and thats
what most of these people want, only I never had anynerves, I mean. Dont you
think so?

You are Sir Julian Freke, said the Coroner, and live at St. Lukes House,
Prince of Wales Road, Battersea, where you exercise a general direction over
the surgical side of St. Lukes Hospital? 129

Sir Julian assented briefly to this definition of his personality.

You were the first medical man to see the deceased?

I was.

And you have since conducted an examination in collaboration with Dr.
Grimbold of Scotland Yard?

I have.

You are in agreement as to the cause of death?

Generally speaking, yes.

Will you communicate your impressions to the Jury?

I was engaged in research work in the dissecting room at St. Lukes Hospital
at about nine oclock on Monday morning, when I was informed that Inspector
Sugg wished to see me. He told me that the dead body of a man had been
discovered under mysterious circumstances at 59 Queen Caroline Mansions. He
asked me whether it could be supposed to be a joke perpetrated by any of the
medical students at the hospital. I was able to assure him, by an examination
of the hospitals books, that there was no subject missing from the dissecting
room.

Who would be in charge of such bodies?

William Watts, the dissecting-room attendant.

Is William Watts present? inquired the Coroner of the officer.

William Watts was present, and could be called if the Coroner thought it
necessary.

I suppose no dead body would be delivered to the hospital without your
knowledge, Sir Julian? 130

Certainly not.

Thank you. Will you proceed with your statement?

Inspector Sugg then asked me whether I would send a medical man round to view
the body. I said that I would go myself.

Why did you do that?

I confess to my share of ordinary human curiosity, Mr. Coroner.

Laughter from a medical student at the back of the room.

On arriving at the flat I found the deceased lying on his back in the bath. I
examined him, and came to the conclusion that death had been caused by a blow
on the back of the neck, dislocating the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae,
bruising the spinal cord and producing internal haemorrhage and partial
paralysis of the brain. I judged the deceased to have been dead at least
twelve hours, possibly more. I observed no other sign of violence of any kind
upon the body. Deceased was a strong, well-nourished man of about fifty to
fifty-five years of age.

In your opinion, could the blow have been self-inflicted?

Certainly not. It had been made with a heavy, blunt instrument from behind,
with great force and considerable judgment. It is quite impossible that it was
self-inflicted.

Could it have been the result of an accident?

That is possible, of course.

If, for example, the deceased had been looking out 131 of the window, and the
sash had shut violently down upon him?

No; in that case there would have been signs of strangulation and a bruise
upon the throat as well.

But deceased might have been killed through a heavy weight accidentally
falling upon him?

He might.

Was death instantaneous, in your opinion?

It is difficult to say. Such a blow might very well cause death
instantaneously, or the patient might linger in a partially paralyzed
condition for some time. In the present case I should be disposed to think
that deceased might have lingered for some hours. I base my decision upon the
condition of the brain revealed at the autopsy. I may say, however, that Dr.
Grimbold and I are not in complete agreement on the point.

I understand that a suggestion has been made as to the identification of the
deceased. _You_ are not in a position to identify him?

Certainly not. I never saw him before. The suggestion to which you refer is a
preposterous one, and ought never to have been made. I was not aware until
this morning that it had been made; had it been made to me earlier, I should
have known how to deal with it, and I should like to express my strong
disapproval of the unnecessary shock and distress inflicted upon a lady with
whom I have the honour to be acquainted.

_The Coroner_ : It was not my fault, Sir Julian; I had nothing to do with it;
I agree with you that it was unfortunate you were not consulted. 132

The reporters scribbled busily, and the court asked each other what was meant,
while the jury tried to look as if they knew already.

In the matter of the eyeglasses found upon the body, Sir Julian. Do these
give any indication to a medical man?

They are somewhat unusual lenses; an oculist would be able to speak more
definitely, but I will say for myself that I should have expected them to
belong to an older man than the deceased.

Speaking as a physician, who has had many opportunities of observing the
human body, did you gather anything from the appearance of the deceased as to
his personal habits?

I should say that he was a man in easy circumstances, but who had only
recently come into money. His teeth are in a bad state, and his hands shows
signs of recent manual labour.

An Australian colonist, for instance, who had made money?

Something of that sort; of course, I could not say positively.

Of course not. Thank you, Sir Julian.

Dr. Grimbold, called, corroborated his distinguished colleague in every
particular, except that, in his opinion, death had not occurred for several
days after the blow. It was with the greatest hesitancy that he ventured to
differ from Sir Julian Freke, and he might be wrong. It was difficult to tell
in any case, and when he saw the body, deceased had been dead at least twenty-
four hours, in his opinion. 133

Inspector Sugg, recalled. Would he tell the jury what steps had been taken to
identify the deceased?

A description had been sent to every police station and had been inserted in
all the newspapers. In view of the suggestion made by Sir Julian Freke, had
inquiries been made at all the seaports? They had. And with no results? With
no results at all. No one had come forward to identify the body? Plenty of
people had come forward; but nobody had succeeded in identifying it. Had any
effort been made to follow up the clue afforded by the eyeglasses? Inspector
Sugg submitted that, having regard to the interests of justice, he would beg
to be excused from answering that question. Might the jury see the eyeglasses?
The eyeglasses were handed to the jury.

William Watts, called, confirmed the evidence of Sir Julian Freke with regard
to dissecting-room subjects. He explained the system by which they were
entered. They usually were supplied by the workhouses and free hospitals. They
were under his sole charge. The young gentlemen could not possibly get the
keys. Had Sir Julian Freke, or any of the house surgeons, the keys? No, not
even Sir Julian Freke. The keys had remained in his possession on Monday
night? They had. And, in any case, the inquiry was irrelevant, as there was no
body missing, nor ever had been? That was the case.

The Coroner then addressed the jury, reminding them with some asperity that
they were not there to gossip about who the deceased could or could not have
been, but to give their opinion as to the cause 134 of death. He reminded them
that they should consider whether, according to the medical evidence, death
could have been accidental or self-inflicted, or whether it was deliberate
murder, or homicide. If they considered the evidence on this point
insufficient, they could return an open verdict. In any case, their verdict
could not prejudice any person; if they brought it in murder, all the whole
evidence would have to be gone through again before the magistrate. He then
dismissed them, with the unspoken adjuration to be quick about it.

Sir Julian Freke, after giving his evidence, had caught the eye of the
Duchess, and now came over and greeted her.

I havent seen you for an age, said that lady. How are you?

Hard at work, said the specialist. Just got my new book out. This kind of
thing wastes time. Have you seen Lady Levy yet?

No, poor dear, said the Duchess. I only came up this morning, for this.
Mrs. Thipps is staying with meone of Peters eccentricities, you know. Poor
Christine! I must run round and see her. This is Mr. Parker, she added, who
is investigating that case.

Oh, said Sir Julian, and paused. Do you know, he said in a low voice to
Parker, I am very glad to meet you. Have you seen Lady Levy yet?

I saw her this morning.

Did she ask you to go on with the inquiry?

Yes, said Parker; she thinks, he added, that Sir Reuben may be detained
in the hands of some 135 financial rival or that perhaps some scoundrels are
holding him to ransom.

And is that _your_ opinion? asked Sir Julian.

I think it very likely, said Parker, frankly.

Sir Julian hesitated again.

I wish you would walk back with me when this is over, he said.

I should be delighted, said Parker.

At this moment the jury returned and took their places, and there was a little
rustle and hush. The Coroner addressed the foreman and inquired if they were
agreed upon their verdict.

We are agreed, Mr. Coroner, that deceased died of the effects of a blow upon
the spine, but how that injury was inflicted we consider that there is not
sufficient evidence to show.

Mr. Parker and Sir Julian Freke walked up the road together.

I had absolutely no idea until I saw Lady Levy this morning, said the
doctor, that there was any idea of connecting this matter with the
disappearance of Sir Reuben. The suggestion was perfectly monstrous, and could
only have grown up in the mind of that ridiculous police officer. If I had had
any idea what was in his mind I could have disabused him and avoided all
this.

I did my best to do so, said Parker, as soon as I was called in to the Levy
case

Who called you in, if I may ask? inquired Sir Julian. 136

Well, the household first of all, and then Sir Reubens uncle, Mr. Levy of
Portman Square, wrote to me to go on with the investigation.

And now Lady Levy has confirmed those instructions?

Certainly, said Parker in some surprise.

Sir Julian was silent for a little time.

Im afraid I was the first person to put the idea into Suggs head, said
Parker, rather penitently. When Sir Reuben disappeared, my first step,
almost, was to hunt up all the street accidents and suicides and so on that
had turned up during the day, and I went down to see this Battersea Park body
as a matter of routine. Of course, I saw that the thing was ridiculous as soon
as I got there, but Sugg froze on to the ideaand its true there was a good
deal of resemblance between the dead man and the portraits Ive seen of Sir
Reuben.

A strong superficial likeness, said Sir Julian. The upper part of the face
is a not uncommon type, and as Sir Reuben wore a heavy beard and there was no
opportunity of comparing the mouths and chins, I can understand the idea
occurring to anybody. But only to be dismissed at once. I am sorry, he added,
as the whole matter has been painful to Lady Levy. You may know, Mr. Parker,
that I am an old, though I should not call myself an intimate, friend of the
Levys.

I understood something of the sort.

Yes. When I was a young man Iin short, Mr. Parker, I hoped once to marry
Lady Levy. (Mr. 137 Parker gave the usual sympathetic groan.) I have never
married, as you know, pursued Sir Julian. We have remained good friends. I
have always done what I could to spare her pain.

Believe me, Sir Julian, said Parker, that I sympathize very much with you
and with Lady Levy, and that I did all I could to disabuse Inspector Sugg of
this notion. Unhappily, the coincidence of Sir Reubens being seen that
evening in the Battersea Park Road

Ah, yes, said Sir Julian. Dear me, here we are at home. Perhaps you would
come in for a moment, Mr. Parker, and have tea or a whisky-and-soda or
something.

Parker promptly accepted this invitation, feeling that there were other things
to be said.

The two men stepped into a square, finely furnished hall with a fireplace on
the same side as the door, and a staircase opposite. The dining-room door
stood open on their right, and as Sir Julian rang the bell a man-servant
appeared at the far end of the hall.

What will you take? asked the doctor.

After that dreadfully cold place, said Parker, what I really want is
gallons of hot tea, if you, as a nerve specialist, can bear the thought of
it.

Provided you allow of a judicious blend of China in it, replied Sir Julian
in the same tone, I have no objection to make. Tea in the library at once,
he added to the servant, and led the way upstairs.

I dont use the downstairs rooms much, except 138 the dining-room, he
explained as he ushered his guest into a small but cheerful library on the
first floor. This room leads out of my bedroom and is more convenient. I only
live part of my time here, but its very handy for my research work at the
hospital. Thats what I do there, mostly. Its a fatal thing for a theorist,
Mr. Parker, to let the practical work get behindhand. Dissection is the basis
of all good theory and all correct diagnosis. One must keep ones hand and eye
in training. This place is far more important to me than Harley Street, and
some day I shall abandon my consulting practice altogether and settle down
here to cut up my subjects and write my books in peace. So many things in this
life are a waste of time, Mr. Parker.

Mr. Parker assented to this.

Very often, said Sir Julian, the only time I get for any research
worknecessitating as it does the keenest observation and the faculties at
their acutesthas to be at night, after a long days work and by artificial
light, which, magnificent as the lighting of the dissecting room here is, is
always more trying to the eyes than daylight. Doubtless your own work has to
be carried on under even more trying conditions.

Yes, sometimes, said Parker; but then you see, he added, the conditions
are, so to speak, part of the work.

Quite so, quite so, said Sir Julian; you mean that the burglar, for
example, does not demonstrate his methods in the light of day, or plant the
perfect 139 footmark in the middle of a damp patch of sand for you to
analyze.

Not as a rule, said the detective, but I have no doubt many of your
diseases work quite as insidiously as any burglar.

They do, they do, said Sir Julian, laughing, and it is my pride, as it is
yours, to track them down for the good of society. The neuroses, you know, are
particularly clever criminalsthey break out into as many disguises as

As Leon Kestrel, the Master-Mummer, suggested Parker, who read railway-stall
detective stories on the principle of the busmans holiday.

No doubt, said Sir Julian, who did not, and they cover up their tracks
wonderfully. But when you can really investigate, Mr. Parker, and break up the
dead, or for preference the living body with the scalpel, you always find the
footmarksthe little trail of ruin or disorder left by madness or disease or
drink or any other similar pest. But the difficulty is to trace them back,
merely by observing the surface symptomsthe hysteria, crime, religion, fear,
shyness, conscience, or whatever it may be; just as you observe a theft or a
murder and look for the footsteps of the criminal, so I observe a fit of
hysterics or an outburst of piety and hunt for the little mechanical
irritation which has produced it.

You regard all these things as physical?

Undoubtedly. I am not ignorant of the rise of another school of thought, Mr.
Parker, but its exponents are mostly charlatans or self-deceivers.  _Sie140
haben sich so weit darin eingeheimnisst_ that, like Sludge the Medium, they
are beginning to believe their own nonsense. I should like to have the
exploring of some of their brains, Mr. Parker; I would show you the little
faults and landslips in the cellsthe misfiring and short-circuiting of the
nerves, which produce these notions and these books. At least, he added,
gazing sombrely at his guest, at least, if I could not quite show you today,
I shall be able to do so tomorrowor in a years timeor before I die.

He sat for some minutes gazing into the fire, while the red light played upon
his tawny beard and struck out answering gleams from his compelling eyes.

Parker drank tea in silence, watching him. On the whole, however, he remained
but little interested in the causes of nervous phenomena and his mind strayed
to Lord Peter, coping with the redoubtable Crimplesham down in Salisbury. Lord
Peter had wanted him to come: that meant, either that Crimplesham was proving
recalcitrant or that a clue wanted following. But Bunter had said that
tomorrow would do, and it was just as well. After all, the Battersea affair
was not Parkers case; he had already wasted valuable time attending an
inconclusive inquest, and he really ought to get on with his legitimate work.
There was still Levys secretary to see and the little matter of the Peruvian
Oil to be looked into. He looked at his watch.

I am very much afraidif you will excuse me he murmured. 141

Sir Julian came back with a start to the consideration of actuality.

Your work calls you? he said, smiling. Well, I can understand that. I wont
keep you. But I wanted to say something to you in connection with your present
inquiryonly I hardly knowI hardly like

Parker sat down again, and banished every indication of hurry from his face
and attitude.

I shall be very grateful for any help you can give me, he said.

Im afraid its more in the nature of hindrance, said Sir Julian, with a
short laugh. Its a case of destroying a clue for you, and a breach of
professional confidence on my side. But sinceaccidentallya certain amount
has come out, perhaps the whole had better do so.

Mr. Parker made the encouraging noise which, among laymen, supplies the place
of the priests insinuating, Yes, my son?

Sir Reuben Levys visit on Monday night was to me, said Sir Julian.

Yes? said Mr. Parker, without expression.

He found cause for certain grave suspicions concerning his health, said Sir
Julian, slowly, as though weighing how much he could in honour disclose to a
stranger. He came to me, in preference to his own medical man, as he was
particularly anxious that the matter should be kept from his wife. As I told
you, he knew me fairly well, and Lady Levy had consulted me about a nervous
disorder in the summer. 142

Did he make an appointment with you? asked Parker.

I beg your pardon, said the other, absently.

Did he make an appointment?

An appointment? Oh, no! He turned up suddenly in the evening after dinner
when I wasnt expecting him. I took him up here and examined him, and he left
me somewhere about ten oclock, I should think.

May I ask what was the result of your examination?

Why do you want to know?

It might illuminatewell, conjecture as to his subsequent conduct, said
Parker, cautiously. This story seemed to have little coherence with the rest
of the business, and he wondered whether coincidence was alone responsible for
Sir Reubens disappearance on the same night that he visited the doctor.

I see, said Sir Julian. Yes. Well, I will tell you in confidence that I saw
grave grounds of suspicion, but as yet, no absolute certainty of mischief.

Thank you. Sir Reuben left you at ten oclock?

Then or thereabouts. I did not at first mention the matter as it was so very
much Sir Reubens wish to keep his visit to me secret, and there was no
question of accident in the street or anything of that kind, since he reached
home safely at midnight.

Quite so, said Parker.

It would have been, and is, a breach of confidence, said Sir Julian, and I
only tell you now because Sir Reuben was accidentally seen, and because I
would rather tell you in private than have you ferretting 143 round here and
questioning my servants, Mr. Parker. You will excuse my frankness.

Certainly, said Parker. I hold no brief for the pleasantness of my
profession, Sir Julian. I am very much obliged to you for telling me this. I
might otherwise have wasted valuable time following up a false trail.

I am sure I need not ask you, in your turn, to respect this confidence, said
the doctor. To publish the matter abroad could only harm Sir Reuben and pain
his wife, besides placing me in no favourable light with my patients.

I promise to keep the thing to myself, said Parker, except of course, he
added hastily, that I must inform my colleague.

You have a colleague in the case?

I have.

What sort of person is he?

He will be perfectly discreet, Sir Julian.

Is he a police officer?

You need not be afraid of your confidence getting into the records at
Scotland Yard.

I see that you know how to be discreet, Mr. Parker.

We also have our professional etiquette, Sir Julian.

On returning to Great Ormond Street, Mr. Parker found a wire awaiting him,
which said: Do not trouble to come. All well. Returning tomorrow. Wimsey.
144

##  CHAPTER VII

On returning to the flat just before lunch-time on the following morning,
after a few confirmatory researches in Balham and the neighbourhood of
Victoria Station, Lord Peter was greeted at the door by Mr. Bunter (who had
gone straight home from Waterloo) with a telephone message and a severe and
nursemaid-like eye.

Lady Swaffham rang up, my lord, and said she hoped your lordship had not
forgotten you were lunching with her.

I have forgotten, Bunter, and I mean to forget. I trust you told her I had
succumbed to lethargic encephalitis suddenly, no flowers by request.

Lady Swaffham said, my lord, she was counting on you. She met the Duchess of
Denver yesterday

If my sister-in-laws there I wont go, thats flat, said Lord Peter.

I beg your pardon, my lord, the Dowager Duchess.

Whats she doing in town?

I imagine she came up for the inquest, my lord.

Oh, yeswe missed that, Bunter.

Yes, my lord. Her Grace is lunching with Lady Swaffham.

Bunter, I cant. I cant, really. Say Im in bed with 145 whooping cough, and
ask my mother to come round after lunch.

Very well, my lord. Mrs. Tommy Frayle will be at Lady Swaffhams, my lord,
and Mr. Milligan

Mr. who?

Mr. John P. Milligan, my lord, and

Good God, Bunter, why didnt you say so before? Have I time to get there
before he does? All right. Im off. With a taxi I can just

Not in those trousers, my lord, said Mr. Bunter, blocking the way to the
door with deferential firmness.

Oh, Bunter, pleaded his lordship, do let mejust this once. You dont know
how important it is.

Not on any account, my lord. It would be as much as my place is worth.

The trousers are all right, Bunter.

Not for Lady Swaffhams, my lord. Besides, your lordship forgets the man that
ran against you with a milk-can at Salisbury.

And Mr. Bunter laid an accusing finger on a slight stain of grease showing
across the light cloth.

I wish to God Id never let you grow into a privileged family retainer,
Bunter, said Lord Peter, bitterly, dashing his walking-stick into the
umbrella-stand. Youve no conception of the mistakes my mother may be
making.

Mr. Bunter smiled grimly and led his victim away.

When an immaculate Lord Peter was ushered, rather late for lunch, into Lady
Swaffhams drawing-room, the Dowager Duchess of Denver was seated on 146 a
sofa, plunged in intimate conversation with Mr. John P. Milligan of Chicago.

Im vurry pleased to meet you, Duchess, had been that financiers opening
remark, to thank you for your exceedingly kind invitation. I assure you its
a compliment I deeply appreciate.

The Duchess beamed at him, while conducting a rapid rally of all her
intellectual forces.

Do come and sit down and talk to me, Mr. Milligan, she said. I do so love
talking to you great business menlet me see, is it a railway king you are or
something about puss-in-the-cornerat least, I dont mean that exactly, but
that game one used to play with cards, all about wheat and oats, and there was
a bull and a bear, tooor was it a horse?no, a bear, because I remember one
always had to try and get rid of it and it used to get so dreadfully crumpled
and torn, poor thing, always being handed about, one got to recognise it, and
then one had to buy a new packso foolish it must seem to you, knowing the
real thing, and dreadfully noisy, but really excellent for breaking the ice
with rather stiff people who didnt know each otherIm quite sorry its gone
out.

Mr. Milligan sat down.

Wal, now, he said, I guess its as interesting for us business men to meet
British aristocrats as it is for Britishers to meet American railway kings,
Duchess. And I guess Ill make as many mistakes talking your kind of talk as
you would make if you were tryin to 147 run a corner in wheat in Chicago.
Fancy now, I called that fine lad of yours Lord Wimsey the other day, and he
thought Id mistaken him for his brother. That made me feel rather green.

This was an unhoped-for lead. The Duchess walked warily.

Dear boy, she said, I am so glad you met him, Mr. Milligan. _Both_ my sons
are a _great_ comfort to me, you know, though, of course, Gerald is more
conventionaljust the right kind of person for the House of Lords, you know,
and a splendid farmer. I cant see Peter down at Denver half so well, though
he is always going to all the right things in town, and very amusing
sometimes, poor boy.

I was vurry much gratified by Lord Peters suggestion, pursued Mr. Milligan,
for which I understand you are responsible, and Ill surely be very pleased
to come any day you like, though I think youre flattering me too much.

Ah, well, said the Duchess, I dont know if youre the best judge of that,
Mr. Milligan. Not that I know anything about business myself, she added. Im
rather old-fashioned for these days, you know, and I cant pretend to do more
than know a nice _man_ when I see him; for the other things I rely on my son.

The accent of this speech was so flattering that Mr. Milligan purred almost
audibly, and said:

Wal, Duchess, I guess thats where a lady with a real, beautiful, old-
fashioned soul has the advantage of these modern young blatherskitesthere
arent 148 many men who wouldnt be niceto her, and even then, if they arent
rock-bottom she can see through them.

But that leaves me where I was, thought the Duchess. I believe, she said
aloud, that I ought to be thanking you in the name of the vicar of Dukes
Denver for a very munificent cheque which reached him yesterday for the Church
Restoration Fund. He was so delighted and astonished, poor dear man.

Oh, thats nothing, said Mr. Milligan, we havent any fine old crusted
buildings like yours over on our side, so its a privilege to be allowed to
drop a little kerosene into the worm-holes when we hear of one in the old
country suffering from senile decay. So when your lad told me about Dukes
Denver I took the liberty to subscribe without waiting for the Bazaar.

Im sure it was very kind of you, said the Duchess. You are coming to the
Bazaar, then? she continued, gazing into his face appealingly.

Sure thing, said Mr. Milligan, with great promptness. Lord Peter said youd
let me know for sure about the date, but we can always make time for a little
bit of good work anyway. Of course Im hoping to be able to avail myself of
your kind invitation to stop, but if Im rushed, Ill manage anyhow to pop
over and speak my piece and pop back again.

I hope so very much, said the Duchess. I must see what can be done about
the dateof course, I cant promise

No, no, said Mr. Milligan heartily. I know what 149 these things are to fix
up. And then theres not only metheres all the real big men of European
eminence your son mentioned, to be consulted.

The Duchess turned pale at the thought that any one of these illustrious
persons might some time turn up in somebodys drawing-room, but by this time
she had dug herself in comfortably, and was even beginning to find her range.

I cant say how grateful we are to you, she said; it will be such a treat.
Do tell me what you think of saying.

Wal began Mr. Milligan.

Suddenly everybody was standing up and a penitent voice was heard to say:

Really, most awfully sorry, yknowhope youll forgive me, Lady Swaffham,
what? Dear lady, could I possibly forget an invitation from you? Fact is, I
had to go an see a man down in Salisburyabsolutely true, pon my word, and
the fellow wouldnt let me get away. Im simply grovellin before you, Lady
Swaffham. Shall I go an eat my lunch in the corner?

Lady Swaffham gracefully forgave the culprit.

Your dear mother is here, she said.

How do, Mother? said Lord Peter, uneasily.

How are you, dear? replied the Duchess. You really oughtnt to have turned
up just yet. Mr. Milligan was just going to tell me what a thrilling speech
hes preparing for the Bazaar, when you came and interrupted us.

Conversation at lunch turned, not unnaturally, on the Battersea inquest, the
Duchess giving a vivid impersonation 150 of Mrs. Thipps being interrogated by
the Coroner.

Did you hear anything unusual in the night? says the little man, leaning
forward and screaming at her, and so crimson in the face and his ears sticking
out sojust like a cherubim in that poem of Tennysonsor is a cherub
blue?perhaps its a seraphim I meananyway, you know what I mean, all eyes,
with little wings on its head. And dear old Mrs. Thipps saying, Of course I
have, any time these eighty years, and _such_ a sensation in court till they
found out she thought hed said, Do you sleep without a light? and everybody
laughing, and then the Coroner said quite loudly, Damn the woman, and she
heard that, I cant think why, and said: Dont you get swearing, young man,
sitting there in the presence of Providence, as you may say. I dont know what
young people are coming to nowadaysand hes sixty if hes a day, you know,
said the Duchess.

By a natural transition, Mrs. Tommy Frayle referred to the man who was hanged
for murdering three brides in a bath.

I always thought that was so ingenious, she said, gazing soulfully at Lord
Peter, and do you know, as it happened, Tommy had just made me insure my
life, and I got so frightened, I gave up my morning bath and took to having it
in the afternoon when he was in the HouseI mean, when he was _not_ in the
housenot at home, I mean.

Dear lady, said Lord Peter, reproachfully, I 151 have a distinct
recollection that all those brides were thoroughly unattractive. But it was an
uncommonly ingenious planthe first time of askinonly he shouldnt have
repeated himself.

One demands a little originality in these days, even from murderers, said
Lady Swaffham. Like dramatists, you knowso much easier in Shakespeares
time, wasnt it? Always the same girl dressed up as a man, and even that
borrowed from Boccaccio or Dante or somebody. Im sure if Id been a
Shakespeare hero, the very minute I saw a slim-legged young page-boy Id have
said: Odsbodikins! Theres that girl again!

Thats just what happened, as a matter of fact, said Lord Peter. You see,
Lady Swaffham, if ever you want to commit a murder, the thing youve got to do
is to prevent people from associatin their ideas. Most people dont associate
anythintheir ideas just roll about like so many dry peas on a tray, makin a
lot of noise and goin nowhere, but once you begin lettin em string their
peas into a necklace, its goin to be strong enough to hang you, what?

Dear me! said Mrs. Tommy Frayle, with a little scream, what a blessing it
is none of my friends have any ideas at all!

Ysee, said Lord Peter, balancing a piece of duck on his fork and frowning,
its only in Sherlock Holmes and stories like that, that people think things
out logically. Ornarly, if somebody tells you somethin out of the way, you
just say, By Jove! or How sad! an leave it at that, an half the time you
forget 152 about it, nless somethin turns up afterwards to drive it home.
Fr instance, Lady Swaffham, I told you when I came in that Id been down to
Salisbury, n thats true, only I dont suppose it impressed you much; n I
dont suppose itd impress you much if you read in the paper tomorrow of a
tragic discovery of a dead lawyer down in Salisbury, but if I went to
Salisbury again next week n there was a Salisbury doctor found dead the day
after, you might begin to think I was a bird of ill omen for Salisbury
residents; and if I went there again the week after, n you heard next day
that the see of Salisbury had fallen vacant suddenly, you might begin to
wonder what took me to Salisbury, an why Id never mentioned before that I
had friends down there, dont you see, an you might think of goin down to
Salisbury yourself, an askin all kinds of people if theyd happened to see a
young man in plum-coloured socks hangin round the Bishops Palace.

I daresay I should, said Lady Swaffham.

Quite. An if you found that the lawyer and the doctor had once upon a time
been in business at Poggleton-on-the-Marsh when the Bishop had been vicar
there, youd begin to remember youd once heard of me payin a visit to
Poggleton-on-the-Marsh a long time ago, an youd begin to look up the parish
registers there an discover Id been married under an assumed name by the
vicar to the widow of a wealthy farmer, whod died suddenly of peritonitis, as
certified by the doctor, after the lawyerd made a will leavin me all her
money, and _then_ youd begin 153 to think I might have very good reasons for
gettin rid of such promisin blackmailers as the lawyer, the doctor an the
bishop. Only, if I hadnt started an association in your mind by gettin rid
of em all in the same place, youd never have thought of goin to Poggleton-
on-the-Marsh, n you wouldnt even have remembered Id ever been there.

 _Were_ you ever there, Lord Peter? inquired Mrs. Tommy, anxiously.

I dont think so, said Lord Peter; the name threads no beads in my mind.
But it might, any day, you know.

But if you were investigating a crime, said Lady Swaffham, youd have to
begin by the usual things, I supposefinding out what the person had been
doing, and whod been to call, and looking for a motive, wouldnt you?

Oh, yes, said Lord Peter, but most of us have such dozens of motives for
murderin all sorts of inoffensive people. Theres lots of people Id like to
murder, wouldnt you?

Heaps, said Lady Swaffham. Theres that dreadfulperhaps Id better not say
it, though, for fear you should remember it later on.

Well, I wouldnt if I were you, said Peter, amiably. You never know. Itd
be beastly awkward if the person died suddenly tomorrow.

The difficulty with this Battersea case, I guess, said Mr. Milligan, is
that nobody seems to have any associations with the gentleman in the bath.
154

So hard on poor Inspector Sugg, said the Duchess. I quite felt for the man,
having to stand up there and answer a lot of questions when he had nothing at
all to say.

Lord Peter applied himself to the duck, having got a little behindhand.
Presently he heard somebody ask the Duchess if she had seen Lady Levy.

She is in great distress, said the woman who had spoken, a Mrs. Freemantle,
though she clings to the hope that he will turn up. I suppose you knew him,
Mr. Milliganknow him, I should say, for I hope hes still alive somewhere.

Mrs. Freemantle was the wife of an eminent railway director, and celebrated
for her ignorance of the world of finance. Her _faux pas_ in this connection
enlivened the tea parties of City mens wives.

Wal, Ive dined with him, said Mr. Milligan, good-naturedly. I think he and
Ive done our best to ruin each other, Mrs. Freemantle. If this were the
States, he added, Id be much inclined to suspect myself of having put Sir
Reuben in a safe place. But we cant do business that way in your old country;
no, maam.

It must be exciting work doing business in America, said Lord Peter.

It is, said Mr. Milligan. I guess my brothers are having a good time there
now. Ill be joining them again before long, as soon as Ive fixed up a little
bit of work for them on this side.

Well, you mustnt go till after my bazaar, said the Duchess. 155

Lord Peter spent the afternoon in a vain hunt for Mr. Parker. He ran him down
eventually after dinner in Great Ormond Street.

Parker was sitting in an elderly but affectionate armchair, with his feet on
the mantelpiece, relaxing his mind with a modern commentary on the Epistle to
the Galatians. He received Lord Peter with quiet pleasure, though without
rapturous enthusiasm, and mixed him a whisky-and-soda. Peter took up the book
his friend had laid down and glanced over the pages.

All these men work with a bias in their minds, one way or other, he said;
they find what they are looking for.

Oh, they do, agreed the detective; but one learns to discount that almost
automatically, you know. When I was at college, I was all on the other
sideConybeare and Robertson and Drews and those people, you know, till I
found they were all so busy looking for a burglar whom nobody had ever seen,
that they couldnt recognise the footprints of the household, so to speak.
Then I spent two years learning to be cautious.

Hum, said Lord Peter, theology must be good exercise for the brain then,
for youre easily the most cautious devil I know. But I say, do go on
readingits a shame for me to come and root you up in your off-time like
this.

Its all right, old man, said Parker.

The two men sat silent for a little, and then Lord Peter said: 156

Dyou like your job?

The detective considered the question, and replied:

Yesyes, I do. I know it to be useful, and I am fitted to it. I do it quite
wellnot with inspiration, perhaps, but sufficiently well to take a pride in
it. It is full of variety and it forces one to keep up to the mark and not get
slack. And theres a future to it. Yes, I like it. Why?

Oh, nothing, said Peter. Its a hobby to me, you see. I took it up when the
bottom of things was rather knocked out for me, because it was so damned
exciting, and the worst of it is, I enjoy itup to a point. If it was all on
paper Id enjoy every bit of it. I love the beginning of a jobwhen one
doesnt know any of the people and its just exciting and amusing. But if it
comes to really running down a live person and getting him hanged, or even
quodded, poor devil, there dont seem as if there was any excuse for me
buttin in, since I dont have to make my livin by it. And I feel as if I
oughtnt ever to find it amusin. But I do.

Parker gave this speech his careful attention.

I see what you mean, he said.

Theres old Milligan, fr instance, said Lord Peter. On paper, nothin
would be funnier than to catch old Milligan out. But hes rather a decent old
bird to talk to. Mother likes him. Hes taken a fancy to me. Its awfully
entertainin goin and pumpin him with stuff about a bazaar for church
expenses, but when hes so jolly pleased about it and that, I feel a worm.
Spose old Milligan has cut Levys throat 157 and plugged him into the Thames.
It aint my business.

Its as much yours as anybodys, said Parker; its no better to do it for
money than to do it for nothing.

Yes, it is, said Peter stubbornly. Havin to live is the only excuse there
is for doin that kind of thing.

Well, but look here! said Parker. If Milligan has cut poor old Levys
throat for no reason except to make himself richer, I dont see why he should
buy himself off by giving 1,000 to Dukes Denver church roof, or why he
should be forgiven just because hes childishly vain, or childishly snobbish.

Thats a nasty one, said Lord Peter.

Well, if you like, even because he has taken a fancy to you.

No, but

Look here, Wimseydo you think he _has_ murdered Levy?

Well, he may have.

But do you think he has?

I dont want to think so.

Because he has taken a fancy to you?

Well, that biases me, of course

I daresay its quite a legitimate bias. You dont think a callous murderer
would be likely to take a fancy to you?

Wellbesides, Ive taken rather a fancy to him.

I daresay thats quite legitimate, too. Youve observed him and made a
subconscious deduction from 158 your observations, and the result is, you
dont think he did it. Well, why not? Youre entitled to take that into
account.

But perhaps Im wrong and he did do it.

Then why let your vainglorious conceit in your own power of estimating
character stand in the way of unmasking the singularly cold-blooded murder of
an innocent and lovable man?

I knowbut I dont feel Im playing the game somehow.

Look here, Peter, said the other with some earnestness, suppose you get
this playing-fields-of-Eton complex out of your system once and for all. There
doesnt seem to be much doubt that something unpleasant has happened to Sir
Reuben Levy. Call it murder, to strengthen the argument. If Sir Reuben has
been murdered, is it a game? and is it fair to treat it as a game?

Thats what Im ashamed of, really, said Lord Peter. It _is_ a game to me,
to begin with, and I go on cheerfully, and then I suddenly see that somebody
is going to be hurt, and I want to get out of it.

Yes, yes, I know, said the detective, but thats because youre thinking
about your attitude. You want to be consistent, you want to look pretty, you
want to swagger debonairly through a comedy of puppets or else to stalk
magnificently through a tragedy of human sorrows and things. But thats
childish. If youve any duty to society in the way of finding out the truth
about murders, you must do it in any attitude that comes handy. You want to be
159 elegant and detached? Thats all right, if you find the truth out that
way, but it hasnt any value in itself, you know. You want to look dignified
and consistentwhats that got to do with it? You want to hunt down a murderer
for the sport of the thing and then shake hands with him and say, Well
playedhard luckyou shall have your revenge tomorrow! Well, you cant do it
like that. Lifes not a football match. You want to be a sportsman. You cant
be a sportsman. Youre a responsible person.

I dont think you ought to read so much theology, said Lord Peter. It has a
brutalizing influence.

He got up and paced about the room, looking idly over the bookshelves. Then he
sat down again, filled and lit his pipe, and said:

Well, Id better tell you about the ferocious and hardened Crimplesham.

He detailed his visit to Salisbury. Once assured of his bona fides, Mr.
Crimplesham had given him the fullest details of his visit to town.

And Ive substantiated it all, groaned Lord Peter, and unless hes
corrupted half Balham, theres no doubt he spent the night there. And the
afternoon was really spent with the bank people. And half the residents of
Salisbury seem to have seen him off on Monday before lunch. And nobody but his
own family or young Wicks seems to have anything to gain by his death. And
even if young Wicks wanted to make away with him, its rather far-fetched to
go and murder an unknown man in Thippss place in 160 order to stick
Crimpleshams eyeglasses on his nose.

Where was young Wicks on Monday? asked Parker.

At a dance given by the Precentor, said Lord Peter, wildly. Davidhis name
is Daviddancing before the ark of the Lord in the face of the whole Cathedral
Close.

There was a pause.

Tell me about the inquest, said Wimsey.

Parker obliged with a summary of the evidence.

Do you believe the body could have been concealed in the flat after all? he
asked. I know we looked, but I suppose we might have missed something.

We might. But Sugg looked as well.

Sugg!

You do Sugg an injustice, said Lord Peter; if there had been any signs of
Thippss complicity in the crime, Sugg would have found them.

Why?

Why? Because he was looking for them. Hes like your commentators on
Galatians. He thinks that either Thipps, or Gladys Horrocks, or Gladys
Horrockss young man did it. Therefore he found marks on the window sill where
Gladys Horrockss young man might have come in or handed something in to
Gladys Horrocks. He didnt find any signs on the roof, because he wasnt
looking for them.

But he went over the roof before me.

Yes, but only in order to prove that there were no marks there. He reasons
like this: Gladys Horrockss 161 young man is a glazier. Glaziers come on
ladders. Glaziers have ready access to ladders. Therefore Gladys Horrockss
young man had ready access to a ladder. Therefore Gladys Horrockss young man
came on a ladder. Therefore there will be marks on the window sill and none on
the roof. Therefore he finds marks on the window sill but none on the roof. He
finds no marks on the ground, but he thinks he would have found them if the
yard didnt happen to be paved with asphalt. Similarly, he thinks Mr. Thipps
may have concealed the body in the box-room or elsewhere. Therefore you may be
sure he searched the box-room and all the other places for signs of
occupation. If they had been there he would have found them, because he was
looking for them. Therefore, if he didnt find them its because they werent
there.

All right, said Parker, stop talking. I believe you.

He went on to detail the medical evidence.

By the way, said Lord Peter, to skip across for a moment to the other case,
has it occurred to you that perhaps Levy was going out to see Freke on Monday
night?

He was; he did, said Parker, rather unexpectedly, and proceeded to recount
his interview with the nerve-specialist.

Humph! said Lord Peter. I say, Parker, these are funny cases, aint they?
Every line of inquiry seems to peter out. Its awfully exciting up to a point,
162 you know, and then nothing comes of it. Its like rivers getting lost in
the sand.

Yes, said Parker. And theres another one I lost this morning.

Whats that?

Oh, I was pumping Levys secretary about his business. I couldnt get much
that seemed important except further details about the Argentine and so on.
Then I thought Id just ask round in the City about those Peruvian Oil shares,
but Levy hadnt even heard of them so far as I could make out. I routed out
the brokers, and found a lot of mystery and concealment, as one always does,
you know, when somebodys been rigging the market, and at last I found one
name at the back of it. But it wasnt Levys.

No? Whose was it?

Oddly enough, Frekes. It seems mysterious. He bought a lot of shares last
week, in a secret kind of way, a few of them in his own name, and then quietly
sold em out on Tuesday at a small profita few hundreds, not worth going to
all that trouble about, you wouldnt think.

Shouldnt have thought he ever went in for that kind of gamble.

He doesnt as a rule. Thats the funny part of it.

Well, you never know, said Lord Peter; people do these things just to prove
to themselves or somebody else that they could make a fortune that way if they
liked. Ive done it myself in a small way.

He knocked out his pipe and rose to go.

I say, old man, he said suddenly, as Parker was 163 letting him out, does
it occur to you that Frekes story doesnt fit in awfully well with what
Anderson said about the old boy having been so jolly at dinner on Monday
night? Would you be, if you thought youd got anything of that sort?

No, I shouldnt, said Parker; but, he added with his habitual caution,
some men will jest in the dentists waiting-room. You, for one.

Well, thats true, said Lord Peter, and went downstairs. 164

##  CHAPTER VIII

Lord Peter reached home about midnight, feeling extraordinarily wakeful and
alert. Something was jigging and worrying in his brain; it felt like a hive of
bees, stirred up by a stick. He felt as though he were looking at a
complicated riddle, of which he had once been told the answer but had
forgotten it and was always on the point of remembering.

Somewhere, said Lord Peter to himself, somewhere Ive got the key to these
two things. I know Ive got it, only I cant remember what it is. Somebody
said it. Perhaps I said it. I cant remember where, but I know Ive got it. Go
to bed, Bunter, I shall sit up a little. Ill just slip on a dressing-gown.

Before the fire he sat down with his pipe in his mouth and his jazz-coloured
peacocks gathered about him. He traced out this line and that line of
investigationrivers running into the sand. They ran out from the thought of
Levy, last seen at ten oclock in Prince of Wales Road. They ran back from the
picture of the grotesque dead man in Mr. Thippss bathroomthey ran over the
roof, and were lostlost in the sand. Rivers running into the sandrivers
running underground, very far down

Where Alph, the sacred river, ran

Through caverns measureless to man

Down to a sunless sea.

165

By leaning his head down, it seemed to Lord Peter that he could hear them,
very faintly, lipping and gurgling somewhere in the darkness. But where? He
felt quite sure that somebody had told him once, only he had forgotten.

He roused himself, threw a log on the fire, and picked up a book which the
indefatigable Bunter, carrying on his daily fatigues amid the excitements of
special duty, had brought from the Times Book Club. It happened to be Sir
Julian Frekes Physiological Bases of the Conscience, which he had seen
reviewed two days before.

This ought to send one to sleep, said Lord Peter; if I cant leave these
problems to my subconscious Ill be as limp as a rag tomorrow.

He opened the book slowly, and glanced carelessly through the preface.

I wonder if thats true about Levy being ill, he thought, putting the book
down; it doesnt seem likely. And yetDash it all, Ill take my mind off it.

He read on resolutely for a little.

I dont suppose Mothers kept up with the Levys much, was the next
importunate train of thought. Dad always hated self-made people and wouldnt
have em at Denver. And old Gerald keeps up the tradition. I wonder if she
knew Freke well in those days. She seems to get on with Milligan. I trust
Mothers judgment a good deal. She was a brick about that bazaar business. I
ought to have warned her. She said something once 166

He pursued an elusive memory for some minutes, till it vanished altogether
with a mocking flicker of the tail. He returned to his reading.

Presently another thought crossed his mind aroused by a photograph of some
experiment in surgery.

If the evidence of Freke and that man Watts hadnt been so positive, he said
to himself, I should be inclined to look into the matter of those shreds of
lint on the chimney.

He considered this, shook his head and read with determination.

Mind and matter were one thing, that was the theme of the physiologist. Matter
could erupt, as it were, into ideas. You could carve passions in the brain
with a knife. You could get rid of imagination with drugs and cure an outworn
convention like a disease. The knowledge of good and evil is an observed
phenomenon, attendant upon a certain condition of the brain-cells, which is
removable. That was one phrase; and again:

Conscience in man may, in fact, be compared to the sting of a hive-bee,
which, so far from conducing to the welfare of its possessor, cannot function,
even in a single instance, without occasioning its death. The survival-value
in each case is thus purely social; and if humanity ever passes from its
present phase of social development into that of a higher individualism, as
some of our philosophers have ventured to speculate, we may suppose that this
interesting mental phenomenon may gradually cease to appear; just as the
nerves and muscles which once controlled the 167 movements of our ears and
scalps have, in all save a few backward individuals, become atrophied and of
interest only to the physiologist.

By Jove! thought Lord Peter, idly, thats an ideal doctrine for the
criminal. A man who believed that would never

And then it happenedthe thing he had been half-unconsciously expecting. It
happened suddenly, surely, as unmistakably, as sunrise. He rememberednot one
thing, nor another thing, nor a logical succession of things, but
everythingthe whole thing, perfect, complete, in all its dimensions as it
were and instantaneously; as if he stood outside the world and saw it
suspended in infinitely dimensional space. He no longer needed to reason about
it, or even to think about it. He knew it.

There is a game in which one is presented with a jumble of letters and is
required to make a word out of them, as thus:

C O S S S S R I

The slow way of solving the problem is to try out all the permutations and
combinations in turn, throwing away impossible conjunctions of letters, as:

S S S I R C

or

S C S R S O

Another way is to stare at the inco-ordinate elements until, by no logical
process that the conscious mind 168 can detect, or under some adventitious
external stimulus, the combination:

S C I S S O R S

presents itself with calm certainty. After that, one does not even need to
arrange the letters in order. The thing is done.

Even so, the scattered elements of two grotesque conundrums, flung higgledy-
piggledy into Lord Peters mind, resolved themselves, unquestioned
henceforward. A bump on the roof of the end houseLevy in a welter of cold
rain talking to a prostitute in the Battersea Park Roada single ruddy
hairlint bandagesInspector Sugg calling the great surgeon from the
dissecting-room of the hospitalLady Levy with a nervous attackthe smell of
carbolic soapthe Duchesss voicenot really an engagement, only a sort of
understanding with her fathershares in Peruvian Oilthe dark skin and
curved, fleshy profile of the man in the bathDr. Grimbold giving evidence,
In my opinion, death did not occur for several days after the blowindia-
rubber gloveseven, faintly, the voice of Mr. Appledore, He called on me,
sir, with an anti-vivisectionist pamphletall these things and many others
rang together and made one sound, they swung together like bells in a steeple,
with the deep tenor booming through the clamour:

The knowledge of good and evil is a phenomenon of the brain, and is
removable, removable, removable. The knowledge of good and evil is removable.
169

Lord Peter Wimsey was not a young man who habitually took himself very
seriously, but this time he was frankly appalled. Its impossible, said his
reason, feebly;  _credo quia impossibile_ , said his interior certainty with
impervious self-satisfaction. All right, said conscience, instantly allying
itself with blind faith, what are you going to do about it?

Lord Peter got up and paced the room: Good Lord! he said. Good Lord! He
took down Whos Who from the little shelf over the telephone and sought
comfort in its pages:

FREKE, Sir Julian, Kt. _cr._ 1916; G.C.V.O. _cr._ 1919; K.C.V.O. 1917; K.C.B.
1918; M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Dr. en Md. Paris; D. Sci. Cantab.; Knight of
Grace of the Order of S. John of Jerusalem; Consulting Surgeon of St. Lukes
Hospital, Battersea. _b._ Gryllingham, 16 March, 1872, _only son_ of Edward
Curzon Freke, Esq., of Gryll Court, Gryllingham. _Educ._ Harrow and Trinity
Coll., Cambridge; Col. A.M.S.; late Member of the Advisory Board of the Army
Medical Service. _Publications_ : Some Notes on the Pathological Aspects of
Genius, 1892; Statistical Contributions to the Study of Infantile Paralysis in
England and Wales, 1894; Functional Disturbances of the Nervous System, 1899;
Cerebro-Spinal Diseases, 1904; The Borderland of Insanity, 1906; An
Examination into the Treatment of Pauper Lunacy in the United Kingdom, 1906;
Modern Developments in Psycho-Therapy: A Criticism, 1910; Criminal Lunacy,
1914; The Application of Psycho-Therapy to the Treatment of Shell-Shock, 1917;
An Answer to Professor Freud, with a Description of Some Experiments Carried
Out at the Base Hospital at Amiens, 1919; Structural Modifications
Accompanying the More Important Neuroses, 1920. _Clubs_ : Whites; Oxford and
170 Cambridge; Alpine, etc. _Recreations_ : Chess, Mountaineering, Fishing.
_Address_ : 282, Harley Street and St. Lukes House, Prince of Wales Road,
Battersea Park, S.W.11.

He flung the book away. Confirmation! he groaned. As if I needed it!

He sat down again and buried his face in his hands. He remembered quite
suddenly how, years ago, he had stood before the breakfast table at Denver
Castlea small, peaky boy in blue knickers, with a thunderously beating heart.
The family had not come down; there was a great silver urn with a spirit lamp
under it, and an elaborate coffee-pot boiling in a glass dome. He had twitched
the corner of the tableclothtwitched it harder, and the urn moved ponderously
forward and all the teaspoons rattled. He seized the tablecloth in a firm grip
and pulled his hardesthe could feel now the delicate and awful thrill as the
urn and the coffee machine and the whole of a Svres breakfast service had
crashed down in one stupendous ruinhe remembered the horrified face of the
butler, and the screams of a lady guest.

A log broke across and sank into a fluff of white ash. A belated motor-lorry
rumbled past the window.

Mr. Bunter, sleeping the sleep of the true and faithful servant, was aroused
in the small hours by a hoarse whisper, Bunter!

Yes, my lord, said Bunter, sitting up and switching on the light.

Put that light out, damn you! said the voice. Listenover
therelistencant you hear it? 171

Its nothing, my lord, said Mr. Bunter, hastily getting out of bed and
catching hold of his master; its all right, you get to bed quick and Ill
fetch you a drop of bromide. Why, youre all shiveringyouve been sitting up
too late.

Hush! no, noits the water, said Lord Peter with chattering teeth; its up
to their waists down there, poor devils. But listen! cant you hear it? Tap,
tap, taptheyre mining usbut I dont know whereI cant hearI cant.
Listen, you! There it is againwe must find itwe must stop it.... Listen! Oh,
my God! I cant hearI cant hear anything for the noise of the guns. Cant
they stop the guns?

Oh, dear! said Mr. Bunter to himself. No, noits all right, Majordont
you worry.

But I hear it, protested Peter.

So do I, said Mr. Bunter stoutly; very good hearing, too, my lord. Thats
our own sappers at work in the communication trench. Dont you fret about
that, sir.

Lord Peter grasped his wrist with a feverish hand.

Our own sappers, he said; sure of that?

Certain of it, said Mr. Bunter, cheerfully.

Theyll bring down the tower, said Lord Peter.

To be sure they will, said Mr. Bunter, and very nice, too. You just come
and lay down a bit, sirtheyve come to take over this section.

Youre sure its safe to leave it? said Lord Peter.

Safe as houses, sir, said Mr. Bunter, tucking his masters arm under his and
walking him off to his bedroom. 172

Lord Peter allowed himself to be dosed and put to bed without further
resistance. Mr. Bunter, looking singularly un-Bunterlike in striped pyjamas,
with his stiff black hair ruffled about his head, sat grimly watching the
younger mans sharp cheekbones and the purple stains under his eyes.

Thought wed had the last of these attacks, he said. Been overdoin of
himself. Asleep? He peered at him anxiously. An affectionate note crept into
his voice. Bloody little fool! said Sergeant Bunter. 173

##  CHAPTER IX

Mr. Parker, summoned the next morning to 110 Piccadilly, arrived to find the
Dowager Duchess in possession. She greeted him charmingly.

I am going to take this silly boy down to Denver for the week-end, she said,
indicating Peter, who was writing and only acknowledged his friends entrance
with a brief nod. Hes been doing too muchrunning about to Salisbury and
places and up till all hours of the nightyou really shouldnt encourage him,
Mr. Parker, its very naughty of youwaking poor Bunter up in the middle of
the night with scares about Germans, as if that wasnt all over years ago, and
he hasnt had an attack for ages, but there! Nerves are such funny things, and
Peter always did have nightmares when he was quite a little boythough very
often of course it was only a little pill he wanted; but he was so dreadfully
bad in 1918, you know, and I suppose we cant expect to forget all about a
great war in a year or two, and, really, I ought to be very thankful with both
my boys safe. Still, I think a little peace and quiet at Denver wont do him
any harm.

Sorry youve been having a bad turn, old man, said Parker, vaguely
sympathetic; youre looking a bit seedy.

Charles, said Lord Peter, in a voice entirely void 174 of expression, I am
going away for a couple of days because I can be no use to you in London. What
has got to be done for the moment can be much better done by you than by me. I
want you to take thishe folded up his writing and placed it in an
envelopeto Scotland Yard immediately and get it sent out to all the
workhouses, infirmaries, police stations, Y.M.C.A.s and so on in London. It
is a description of Thippss corpse as he was before he was shaved and cleaned
up. I want to know whether any man answering to that description has been
taken in anywhere, alive or dead, during the last fortnight. You will see Sir
Andrew Mackenzie personally, and get the paper sent out at once, by his
authority; you will tell him that you have solved the problems of the Levy
murder and the Battersea mysteryMr. Parker made an astonished noise to which
his friend paid no attentionand you will ask him to have men in readiness
with a warrant to arrest a very dangerous and important criminal at any moment
on your information. When the replies to this paper come in, you will search
for any mention of St. Lukes Hospital, or of any person connected with St.
Lukes Hospital, and you will send for me at once.

Meanwhile you will scrape acquaintanceI dont care howwith one of the
students at St. Lukes. Dont march in there blowing about murders and police
warrants, or you may find yourself in Queer Street. I shall come up to town as
soon as I hear from you, and I shall expect to find a nice ingenuous Sawbones
here to meet me. He grinned faintly. 175

Dyou mean youve got to the bottom of this thing? asked Parker.

Yes. I may be wrong. I hope I am, but I know Im not.

You wont tell me?

Dyou know, said Peter, honestly Id rather not. I say I _may_ be wrongand
Id feel as if Id libelled the Archbishop of Canterbury.

Well, tell meis it one mystery or two?

One.

You talked of the Levy murder. Is Levy dead?

Godyes! said Peter, with a strong shudder.

The Duchess looked up from where she was reading the _Tatler_.

Peter, she said, is that your ague coming on again? Whatever you two are
chattering about, youd better stop it at once if it excites you. Besides,
its about time to be off.

All right, Mother, said Peter. He turned to Bunter, standing respectfully in
the door with an overcoat and suitcase. You understand what you have to do,
dont you? he said.

Perfectly, thank you, my lord. The car is just arriving, your Grace.

With Mrs. Thipps inside it, said the Duchess. Shell be delighted to see
you again, Peter. You remind her so of Mr. Thipps. Good-morning, Bunter.

Good-morning, your Grace.

Parker accompanied them downstairs.

When they had gone he looked blankly at the paper 176 in his handthen,
remembering that it was Saturday and there was need for haste, he hailed a
taxi.

Scotland Yard! he cried.

Tuesday morning saw Lord Peter and a man in a velveteen jacket swishing
merrily through seven acres of turnip-tops, streaked yellow with early frosts.
A little way ahead, a sinuous undercurrent of excitement among the leaves
proclaimed the unseen yet ever-near presence of one of the Duke of Denvers
setter pups. Presently a partridge flew up with a noise like a police rattle,
and Lord Peter accounted for it very creditably for a man who, a few nights
before, had been listening to imaginary German sappers. The setter bounded
foolishly through the turnips, and fetched back the dead bird.

Good dog, said Lord Peter.

Encouraged by this, the dog gave a sudden ridiculous gambol and barked, its
ear tossed inside out over its head.

Heel, said the man in velveteen, violently. The animal sidled up, ashamed.

Fool of a dog, that, said the man in velveteen; cant keep quiet. Too
nervous, my lord. One of old Black Lasss pups.

Dear me, said Peter, is the old dog still going?

No, my lord; we had to put her away in the spring.

Peter nodded. He always proclaimed that he hated the country and was thankful
to have nothing to do with the family estates, but this morning he enjoyed 177
the crisp air and the wet leaves washing darkly over his polished boots. At
Denver things moved in an orderly way; no one died sudden and violent deaths
except aged settersand partridges, to be sure. He sniffed up the autumn smell
with appreciation. There was a letter in his pocket which had come by the
morning post, but he did not intend to read it just yet. Parker had not wired;
there was no hurry.

He read it in the smoking-room after lunch. His brother was there, dozing over
the _Times_ a good, clean Englishman, sturdy and conventional, rather like
Henry VIII in his youth; Gerald, sixteenth Duke of Denver. The Duke considered
his cadet rather degenerate, and not quite good form; he disliked his taste
for police-court news.

The letter was from Mr. Bunter.

110, Piccadilly,  
W.1.

My Lord:

I write (Mr. Bunter had been carefully educated and knew that nothing is more
vulgar than a careful avoidance of beginning a letter with the first person
singular) as your lordship directed, to inform you of the result of my
investigations.

I experienced no difficulty in becoming acquainted with Sir Julian Frekes
man-servant. He belongs to the same club as the Hon. Frederick Arbuthnots
man, who is a friend of mine, and was very willing to introduce me. He took me
to the club yesterday 178 (Sunday) evening, and we dined with the man, whose
name is John Cummings, and afterwards I invited Cummings to drinks and a cigar
in the flat. Your lordship will excuse me doing this, knowing that it is not
my habit, but it has always been my experience that the best way to gain a
mans confidence is to let him suppose that one takes advantage of ones
employer.

(I always suspected Bunter of being a student of human nature, commented
Lord Peter.)

I gave him the best old port (The deuce you did, said Lord Peter), having
heard you and Mr. Arbuthnot talk over it. (Hum! said Lord Peter.)

Its effects were quite equal to my expectations as regards the principal
matter in hand, but I very much regret to state that the man had so little
understanding of what was offered to him that he smoked a cigar with it (one
of your lordships Villar Villars). You will understand that I made no comment
on this at the time, but your lordship will sympathize with my feelings. May I
take this opportunity of expressing my grateful appreciation of your
lordships excellent taste in food, drink and dress? It is, if I may say so,
more than a pleasureit is an education, to valet and buttle your lordship.

Lord Peter bowed his head gravely.

What on earth are you doing, Peter, sittin there noddin an grinnin like a
what-you-may-call-it? demanded the Duke, coming suddenly out of a snooze.
Someone writin pretty things to you, what? 179

Charming things, said Lord Peter.

The Duke eyed him doubtfully.

Hope to goodness you dont go and marry a chorus beauty, he muttered
inwardly, and returned to the _Times_.

Over dinner I had set myself to discover Cummingss tastes, and found them to
run in the direction of the music-hall stage. During his first glass I drew
him out in this direction, your lordship having kindly given me opportunities
of seeing every performance in London, and I spoke more freely than I should
consider becoming in the ordinary way in order to make myself pleasant to him.
I may say that his views on women and the stage were such as I should have
expected from a man who would smoke with your lordships port.

With the second glass I introduced the subject of your lordships inquiries.
In order to save time I will write our conversation in the form of a dialogue,
as nearly as possible as it actually took place.

_Cummings_ : You seem to get many opportunities of seeing a bit of life, Mr.
Bunter.

_Bunter_ : One can always make opportunities if one knows how.

_Cummings_ : Ah, its very easy for you to talk, Mr. Bunter. Youre not
married, for one thing.

_Bunter_ : I know better than that, Mr. Cummings.

_Cummings_ : So do I _now_ , when its too late. (He sighed heavily, and I
filled up his glass.) 180

_Bunter_ : Does Mrs. Cummings live with you at Battersea?

_Cummings_ : Yes, her and me we do for my governor. Such a life! Not but what
theres a char comes in by the day. But whats a char? I can tell you its
dull all by ourselves in that dd Battersea suburb.

_Bunter_ : Not very convenient for the Halls, of course.

_Cummings_ : I believe you. Its all right for you, here in Piccadilly, right
on the spot as you might say. And I daresay your governors often out all
night, eh?

_Bunter_ : Oh, frequently, Mr. Cummings.

_Cummings_ : And I daresay you take the opportunity to slip off yourself every
so often, eh?

_Bunter_ : Well, what do _you_ think, Mr. Cummings?

_Cummings_ : Thats it; there you are! But whats a man to do with a nagging
fool of a wife and a blasted scientific doctor for a governor, as sits up all
night cutting up dead bodies and experimenting with frogs?

_Bunter_ : Surely he goes out sometimes.

_Cummings_ : Not often. And always back before twelve. And the way he goes on
if he rings the bell and you aint there. I give you _my_ word, Mr. Bunter.

_Bunter_ : Temper?

_Cummings_ : No-o-obut looking through you, nasty-like, as if you was on that
operating table of his and he was going to cut you up. Nothing a man could
rightly complain of, you understand, Mr. Bunter, just nasty looks. Not but
what I will say hes very correct. Apologizes if hes been inconsiderate. 181
But whats the good of that when hes been and gone and lost you your nights
rest?

_Bunter_ : How does he do that? Keeps you up late, you mean?

_Cummings_ : Not him; far from it. House locked up and household to bed at
half-past ten. Thats his little rule. Not but what Im glad enough to go as a
rule, its that dreary. Still, when I _do_ go to bed I like to go to sleep.

_Bunter_ : What does he do? Walk about the house?

_Cummings_ : Doesnt he? All night. And in and out of the private door to the
hospital.

_Bunter_ : You dont mean to say, Mr. Cummings, a great specialist like Sir
Julian Freke does night work at the hospital?

_Cummings_ : No, no; he does his own workresearch work, as you may say. Cuts
people up. They say hes very clever. Could take you or me to pieces like a
clock, Mr. Bunter, and put us together again.

_Bunter_ : Do you sleep in the basement, then, to hear him so plain?

_Cummings_ : No; our bedrooms at the top. But, Lord! whats that? Hell bang
the door so you can hear him all over the house.

_Bunter_ : Ah, manys the time Ive had to speak to Lord Peter about that. And
talking all night. And baths.

_Cummings_ : Baths? You may well say that, Mr. Bunter. Baths? Me and my wife
sleep next to the cistern-room. Noise fit to wake the dead. All hours. 182
When dyou think he chose to have a bath, no later than last Monday night, Mr.
Bunter?

_Bunter_ : Ive known them to do it at two in the morning, Mr. Cummings.

_Cummings_ : Have you, now? Well, this was at three. Three oclock in the
morning we was waked up. I give you _my_ word.

_Bunter_ : You dont say so, Mr. Cummings.

_Cummings_ : He cuts up diseases, you see, Mr. Bunter, and then he dont like
to go to bed till hes washed the bacilluses off, if you understand me. Very
natural, too, I daresay. But what I say is, the middle of the nights no time
for a gentleman to be occupying his mind with diseases.

_Bunter_ : These great men have their own way of doing things.

_Cummings_ : Well, all I can say is, it isnt my way.

(I could believe that, your lordship. Cummings has no signs of greatness about
him, and his trousers are not what I would wish to see in a man of his
profession.)

_Bunter_ : Is he habitually as late as that, Mr. Cummings?

_Cummings_ : Well, no, Mr. Bunter, I will say, not as a general rule. He
apologized, too, in the morning, and said he would have the cistern seen
toand very necessary, in my opinion, for the air gets into the pipes, and the
groaning and screeching as goes on is something awful. Just like Niagara, if
you follow me, Mr. Bunter, I give you _my_ word.

_Bunter_ : Well, thats as it should be, Mr. Cummings. 183 One can put up with
a great deal from a gentleman that has the manners to apologize. And, of
course, sometimes they cant help themselves. A visitor will come in
unexpectedly and keep them late, perhaps.

_Cummings_ : Thats true enough, Mr. Bunter. Now I come to think of it, there
_was_ a gentleman come in on Monday evening. Not that he came late, but he
stayed about an hour, and may have put Sir Julian behindhand.

_Bunter_ : Very likely. Let me give you some more port, Mr. Cummings. Or a
little of Lord Peters old brandy.

_Cummings_ : A little of the brandy, thank you, Mr. Bunter. I suppose you have
the run of the cellar here. (He winked at me.)

Trust me for that, I said, and I fetched him the Napoleon. I assure your
lordship it went to my heart to pour it out for a man like that. However,
seeing we had got on the right tack, I felt it wouldnt be wasted.

Im sure I wish it was always gentlemen that come here at night, I said.
(Your lordship will excuse me, I am sure, making such a suggestion.)

(Good God, said Lord Peter, I wish Bunter was less thorough in his
methods.)

_Cummings_ : Oh, hes that sort, his lordship, is he? (He chuckled and poked
me. I suppress a portion of his conversation here, which could not fail to be
as offensive to your lordship as it was to myself. He went on:) No, its none
of that with Sir Julian. Very few 184 visitors at night, and always gentlemen.
And going early as a rule, like the one I mentioned.

_Bunter:_ Just as well. Theres nothing I find more wearisome, Mr. Cummings,
than sitting up to see visitors out.

_Cummings:_ Oh, I didnt see this one out. Sir Julian let him out himself at
ten oclock or thereabouts. I heard the gentleman shout Good-night and off
he goes.

_Bunter:_ Does Sir Julian always do that?

_Cummings:_ Well, that depends. If he sees visitors downstairs, he lets them
out himself: if he sees them upstairs in the library, he rings for me.

_Bunter:_ This was a downstairs visitor, then?

_Cummings:_ Oh, yes. Sir Julian opened the door to him, I remember. He
happened to be working in the hall. Though now I come to think of it, they
went up to the library afterwards. Thats funny. I know they did, because I
happened to go up to the hall with coals, and I heard them upstairs. Besides,
Sir Julian rang for me in the library a few minutes later. Still, anyway, we
heard him go at ten, or it may have been a bit before. He hadnt only stayed
about three-quarters of an hour. However, as I was saying, there was Sir
Julian banging in and out of the private door all night, and a bath at three
in the morning, and up again for breakfast at eightit beats me. If I had all
his money, curse me if Id go poking about with dead men in the middle of the
night. Id find something better to do with my time, eh, Mr. Bunter 185

I need not repeat any more of his conversation, as it became unpleasant and
incoherent, and I could not bring him back to the events of Monday night. I
was unable to get rid of him till three. He cried on my neck, and said I was
the bird, and you were the governor for him. He said that Sir Julian would be
greatly annoyed with him for coming home so late, but Sunday night was his
night out and if anything was said about it he would give notice. I think he
will be ill-advised to do so, as I feel he is not a man I could
conscientiously recommend if I were in Sir Julian Frekes place. I noticed
that his boot-heels were slightly worn down.

I should wish to add, as a tribute to the great merits of your lordships
cellar, that, although I was obliged to drink a somewhat large quantity both
of the Cockburn 68 and the 1800 Napoleon I feel no headache or other ill
effects this morning.

Trusting that your lordship is deriving real benefit from the country air, and
that the little information I have been able to obtain will prove
satisfactory, I remain.

With respectful duty to all the family,

Obediently yours,  
Mervyn Bunter.

Yknow, said Lord Peter thoughtfully to himself, I sometimes think Mervyn
Bunters pullin my leg. What is it, Soames?

A telegram, my lord.

Parker, said Lord Peter, opening it. It said: 186

Description recognised Chelsea Workhouse. Unknown vagrant injured street
accident Wednesday week. Died workhouse Monday. Delivered St. Lukes same
evening by order Freke. Much puzzled. Parker.

Hurray! said Lord Peter, suddenly sparkling. Im glad Ive puzzled Parker.
Gives me confidence in myself. Makes me feel like Sherlock Holmes. Perfectly
simple, Watson. Dash it all, though! this is a beastly business. Still, its
puzzled Parker.

Whats the matter? asked the Duke, getting up and yawning.

Marching orders, said Peter, back to town. Many thanks for your
hospitality, old birdIm feelin no end better. Ready to tackle Professor
Moriarty or Leon Kestrel or any of em.

I do wish youd keep out of the police courts, grumbled the Duke. It makes
it so dashed awkward for me, havin a brother makin himself conspicuous.

Sorry, Gerald, said the other; I know Im a beastly blot on the
scutcheon.

Why cant you marry and settle down and live quietly, doin something
useful? said the Duke, unappeased.

Because that was a wash-out as you perfectly well know, said Peter;
besides, he added cheerfully, Im bein no end useful. You may come to want
me yourself, you never know. When anybody comes blackmailin you, Gerald, or
your first deserted wife turns up unexpectedly from the West Indies, youll
realize the pull of havin a private detective in the 187 family. Delicate
private business arranged with tact and discretion. Investigations undertaken.
Divorce evidence a specialty. Every guarantee! Come, now.

Ass! said Lord Denver, throwing the newspaper violently into his armchair.
When do you want the car?

Almost at once. I say, Jerry, Im taking Mother up with me.

Why should she be mixed up in it?

Well, I want her help.

I call it most unsuitable, said the Duke.

The Dowager Duchess, however, made no objection.

I used to know her quite well, she said, when she was Christine Ford. Why,
dear?

Because, said Lord Peter, theres a terrible piece of news to be broken to
her about her husband.

Is he dead, dear?

Yes; and she will have to come and identify him.

Poor Christine.

Under very revolting circumstances, Mother.

Ill come with you, dear.

Thank you, Mother, youre a brick. Dyou mind gettin your things on straight
away and comin up with me? Ill tell you about it in the car. 188

##  CHAPTER X

Mr. Parker, a faithful though doubting Thomas, had duly secured his medical
student: a large young man like an overgrown puppy, with innocent eyes and a
freckled face. He sat on the Chesterfield before Lord Peters library fire,
bewildered in equal measure by his errand, his surroundings and the drink
which he was absorbing. His palate, though untutored, was naturally a good
one, and he realized that even to call this liquid a drinkthe term ordinarily
used by him to designate cheap whisky, post-war beer or a dubious glass of
claret in a Soho restaurantwas a sacrilege; this was something outside normal
experience: a genie in a bottle.

The man called Parker, whom he had happened to run across the evening before
in the public-house at the corner of Prince of Wales Road, seemed to be a good
sort. He had insisted on bringing him round to see this friend of his, who
lived splendidly in Piccadilly. Parker was quite understandable; he put him
down as a government servant, or perhaps something in the City. The friend was
embarrassing; he was a lord, to begin with, and his clothes were a kind of
rebuke to the world at large. He talked the most fatuous nonsense, certainly,
but in a disconcerting way. He didnt dig into a joke and get all the fun out
of it; he made it in passing, so to speak, and skipped 189 away to something
else before your retort was ready. He had a truly terrible man-servantthe
sort you read about in bookswho froze the marrow in your bones with silent
criticism. Parker appeared to bear up under the strain, and this made you
think more highly of Parker; he must be more habituated to the surroundings of
the great than you would think to look at him. You wondered what the carpet
had cost on which Parker was carelessly spilling cigar ash; your father was an
upholstererMr. Piggott, of Piggott & Piggott, Liverpooland you knew enough
about carpets to know that you couldnt even guess at the price of this one.
When you moved your head on the bulging silk cushion in the corner of the
sofa, it made you wish you shaved more often and more carefully. The sofa was
a monsterbut even so, it hardly seemed big enough to contain you. This Lord
Peter was not very tallin fact, he was rather a small man, but he didnt look
undersized. He looked right; he made you feel that to be six-foot-three was
rather vulgarly assertive; you felt like Mothers new drawing-room
curtainsall over great big blobs. But everybody was very decent to you, and
nobody said anything you couldnt understand, or sneered at you. There were
some frightfully deep-looking books on the shelves all round, and you had
looked into a great folio Dante which was lying on the table, but your hosts
were talking quite ordinarily and rationally about the sort of books you read
yourselfclinking good love stories and detective stories. You had read a lot
of those, and could give an opinion, and they 190 listened to what you had to
say, though Lord Peter had a funny way of talking about books, too, as if the
author had confided in him beforehand, and told him how the story was put
together, and which bit was written first. It reminded you of the way old
Freke took a body to pieces.

Thing I object to in detective stories, said Mr. Piggott, is the way
fellows remember every bloomin thing thats happened to em within the last
six months. Theyre always ready with their time of day and was it rainin or
not, and what were they doin on such an such a day. Reel it all off like a
page of poetry. But one aint like that in real life, dyou think so, Lord
Peter? Lord Peter smiled, and young Piggott, instantly embarrassed, appealed
to his earlier acquaintance. You know what I mean, Parker. Come now. One
days so like another, Im sure I couldnt rememberwell, I might remember
yesterday, praps, but I couldnt be certain about what I was doin last week
if I was to be shot for it.

No, said Parker, and evidence given in police statements sounds just as
impossible. But they dont really get it like that, you know. I mean, a man
doesnt just say, Last Friday I went out at 10 a.m. to buy a mutton chop. As
I was turning into Mortimer Street I noticed a girl of about twenty-two with
black hair and brown eyes, wearing a green jumper, check skirt, Panama hat and
black shoes, riding a Royal Sunbeam Cycle at about ten miles an hour turning
the corner by the Church of St. Simon and St. Jude on the wrong side of the
road riding 191 towards the market place! It amounts to that, of course, but
its really wormed out of him by a series of questions.

And in short stories, said Lord Peter, it has to be put in statement form,
because the real conversation would be so long and twaddly and tedious, and
nobody would have the patience to read it. Writers have to consider their
readers, if any, ysee.

Yes, said Mr. Piggott, but I bet you most people would find it jolly
difficult to remember, even if you asked em things. I shouldof course, I
know Im a bit of a fool, but then, most people are, aint they? You know what
I mean. Witnesses aint detectives, theyre just average idiots like you and
me.

Quite so, said Lord Peter, smiling as the force of the last phrase sank into
its unhappy perpetrator; you mean, if I were to ask you in a general way what
you were doinsay, a week ago today, you wouldnt be able to tell me a thing
about it offhand?

NoIm sure I shouldnt. He considered. No. I was in at the Hospital as
usual, I suppose, and, being Tuesday, thered be a lecture on something or the
otherdashed if I know whatand in the evening I went out with Tommy
Pringleno, that must have been Mondayor was it Wednesday? I tell you, I
couldnt swear to anything.

You do yourself an injustice, said Lord Peter gravely. Im sure, for
instance, you recollect what work you were doing in the dissecting-room on
that day, for example.

Lord, no! not for certain. I mean, I daresay it 192 might come back to me if
I thought for a long time, but I wouldnt swear to it in a court of law.

Ill bet you half-a-crown to sixpence, said Lord Peter, that youll
remember within five minutes.

Im sure I cant.

Well see. Do you keep a notebook of the work you do when you dissect?
Drawings or anything?

Oh, yes.

Think of that. Whats the last thing you did in it?

Thats easy, because I only did it this morning. It was leg muscles.

Yes. Who was the subject?

An old woman of sorts; died of pneumonia.

Yes. Turn back the pages of your drawing book in your mind. What came before
that?

Oh, some animalsstill legs; Im doing motor muscles at present. Yes. That
was old Cunninghams demonstration on comparative anatomy. I did rather a good
thing of a hares legs and a frogs, and rudimentary legs on a snake.

Yes. Which day does Mr. Cunningham lecture?

Friday.

Friday; yes. Turn back again. What comes before that?

Mr. Piggott shook his head.

Do your drawings of legs begin on the right-hand page or the left-hand page?
Can you see the first drawing?

YesyesI can see the date written at the top. 193 Its a section of a frogs
hind leg, on the right-hand page.

Yes. Think of the open book in your minds eye. What is opposite to it?

This demanded some mental concentration.

Something roundcolouredoh, yesits a hand.

Yes. You went on from the muscles of the hand and arm to leg- and foot-
muscles?

Yes; thats right. Ive got a set of drawings of arms.

Yes. Did you make those on the Thursday?

No; Im never in the dissecting-room on Thursday.

On Wednesday, perhaps?

Yes; I must have made them on Wednesday. Yes; I did. I went in there after
wed seen those tetanus patients in the morning. I did them on Wednesday
afternoon. I know I went back because I wanted to finish em. I worked rather
hardfor me. Thats why I remember.

Yes; you went back to finish them. When had you begun them, then?

Why, the day before.

The day before. That was Tuesday, wasnt it?

Ive lost countyes, the day before Wednesdayyes, Tuesday.

Yes. Were they a mans arms or a womans arms?

Oh, a mans arms.

Yes; last Tuesday, a week ago today, you were 194 dissecting a mans arms in
the dissecting-room. Sixpence, please.

By Jove!

Wait a moment. You know a lot more about it than that. Youve no idea how
much you know. You know what kind of man he was.

Oh, I never saw him complete, you know. I got there a bit late that day, I
remember. Id asked for an arm specially, because I was rather weak in arms,
and Wattsthats the attendanthad promised to save me one.

Yes. You have arrived late and found your arm waiting for you. You are
dissecting ittaking your scissors and slitting up the skin and pinning it
back. Was it very young, fair skin?

Oh, nono. Ordinary skin, I thinkwith dark hairs on ityes, that was it.

Yes. A lean, stringy arm, perhaps, with no extra fat anywhere?

Oh, noI was rather annoyed about that. I wanted a good, muscular arm, but it
was rather poorly developed and the fat got in my way.

Yes; a sedentary man who didnt do much manual work.

Thats right.

Yes. You dissected the hand, for instance, and made a drawing of it. You
would have noticed any hard calluses.

Oh, there was nothing of that sort.

No. But should you say it was a young mans arm? Firm young flesh and limber
joints? 195

Nono.

No. Old and stringy, perhaps.

No. Middle-agedwith rheumatism. I mean, there was a chalky deposit in the
joints, and the fingers were a bit swollen.

Yes. A man about fifty.

About that.

Yes. There were other students at work on the same body.

Oh, yes.

Yes. And they made all the usual sort of jokes about it.

I expect sooh, yes!

You can remember some of them. Who is your local funny man, so to speak?

Tommy Pringle.

What was Tommy Pringles doing?

Cant remember.

Whereabouts was Tommy Pringle working?

Over by the instrument cupboardby sink C.

Yes. Get a picture of Tommy Pringle in your minds eye.

Piggott began to laugh.

I remember now. Tommy Pringle said the old Sheeny

Why did he call him a Sheeny?

I dont know. But I know he did.

Perhaps he looked like it. Did you see his head?

No.

Who had the head?

I dont knowoh, yes, I do, though. Old Freke 196 bagged the head himself,
and little Bouncible Binns was very cross about it, because hed been promised
a head to do with old Scrooger.

I see. What was Sir Julian doing with the head?

He called us up and gave us a jaw on spinal haemorrhage and nervous lesions.

Yes. Well, go back to Tommy Pringle.

Tommy Pringles joke was repeated, not without some embarrassment.

Quite so. Was that all?

No. The chap who was working with Tommy said that sort of thing came from
over-feeding.

I deduce that Tommy Pringles partner was interested in the alimentary
canal.

Yes; and Tommy said, if hed thought theyd feed you like that hed go to the
workhouse himself.

Then the man was a pauper from the workhouse?

Well, he must have been, I suppose.

Are workhouse paupers usually fat and well-fed?

Well, nocome to think of it, not as a rule.

In fact, it struck Tommy Pringle and his friend that this was something a
little out of the way in a workhouse subject?

Yes.

And if the alimentary canal was so entertaining to these gentlemen, I imagine
the subject had come by his death shortly after a full meal.

Yesoh, yeshed have had to, wouldnt he?

Well, I dont know, said Lord Peter. Thats in 197 your department, you
know. That would be your inference, from what they said.

Oh, yes. Undoubtedly.

Yes; you wouldnt, for example, expect them to make that observation if the
patient had been ill for a long time and fed on slops.

Of course not.

Well, you see, you really know a lot about it. On Tuesday week you were
dissecting the arm muscles of a rheumatic middle-aged Jew, of sedentary
habits, who had died shortly after eating a heavy meal, of some injury
producing spinal haemorrhage and nervous lesions, and so forth, and who was
presumed to come from the workhouse?

Yes.

And you could swear to those facts, if need were?

Well, if you put it in that way, I suppose I could.

Of course you could.

Mr. Piggott sat for some moments in contemplation.

I say, he said at last, I did know all that, didnt I?

Oh, yesyou knew it all rightlike Socratess slave.

Whos he?

A person in a book I used to read as a boy.

Ohdoes he come in The Last Days of Pompeii?

Noanother bookI daresay you escaped it. Its rather dull. 198

I never read much except Henty and Fenimore Cooper at school.... Buthave I
got rather an extra good memory, then?

You have a better memory than you credit yourself with.

Then why cant I remember all the medical stuff? It all goes out of my head
like a sieve.

Well, why cant you? said Lord Peter, standing on the hearthrug and smiling
down at his guest.

Well, said the young man, the chaps who examine one dont ask the same sort
of questions you do.

No?

Nothey leave you to remember all by yourself. And its beastly hard. Nothing
to catch hold of, dont you know? But, I sayhow did you know about Tommy
Pringle being the funny man and

I didnt, till you told me.

No; I know. But how did you know hed be there if you did ask? I mean to
sayI say, said Mr. Piggott, who was becoming mellowed by influences
themselves not unconnected with the alimentary canalI say, are you rather
clever, or am I rather stupid?

No, no, said Lord Peter, its me. Im always askin such stupid questions,
everybody thinks I must mean somethin by em.

This was too involved for Mr. Piggott.

Never mind, said Parker, soothingly, hes always like that. You mustnt
take any notice. He cant help it. Its premature senile decay, often observed
199 in the families of hereditary legislators. Go away, Wimsey, and play us
the Beggars Opera, or something.

Thats good enough, isnt it? said Lord Peter, when the happy Mr. Piggott
had been despatched home after a really delightful evening.

Im afraid so, said Parker. But it seems almost incredible.

Theres nothing incredible in human nature, said Lord Peter; at least, in
educated human nature. Have you got that exhumation order?

I shall have it tomorrow. I thought of fixing up with the workhouse people
for tomorrow afternoon. I shall have to go and see them first.

Right you are; Ill let my mother know.

I begin to feel like you, Wimsey, I dont like this job.

I like it a deal better than I did.

You are really certain were not making a mistake?

Lord Peter had strolled across to the window. The curtain was not perfectly
drawn, and he stood gazing out through the gap into lighted Piccadilly. At
this he turned round:

If we are, he said, we shall know tomorrow, and no harm will have been
done. But I rather think you will receive a certain amount of confirmation on
your way home. Look here, Parker, dyou know, if I were you Id spend the
night here. Theres a spare bedroom; I can easily put you up.

Parker stared at him. 200

Do you meanIm likely to be attacked?

I think it very likely indeed.

Is there anybody in the street?

Not now; there was half-an-hour ago.

When Piggott left?

Yes.

I sayI hope the boy is in no danger.

Thats what I went down to see. I dont think so. Fact is, I dont suppose
anybody would imagine wed exactly made a confidant of Piggott. But I think
you and I are in danger. Youll stay?

Im damned if I will, Wimsey. Why should I run away?

Bosh! said Peter. Youd run away all right if you believed me, and why not?
You dont believe me. In fact, youre still not certain Im on the right tack.
Go in peace, but dont say I didnt warn you.

I wont; Ill dictate a message with my dying breath to say I was convinced.

Well, dont walktake a taxi.

Very well, Ill do that.

And dont let anybody else get into it.

No.

It was a raw, unpleasant night. A taxi deposited a load of people returning
from the theatre at the block of flats next door, and Parker secured it for
himself. He was just giving the address to the driver, when a man came hastily
running up from a side street. He was in evening dress and an overcoat. He
rushed up, signalling frantically.

Sirsir!dear me! why, its Mr. Parker! How 201 fortunate! If you would be so
kindsummoned from the cluba sick friendcant find a taxieverybody going
home from the theatreif I might share your cabyou are returning to
Bloomsbury? I want Russell Squareif I might presumea matter of life and
death.

He spoke in hurried gasps, as though he had been running violently and far.
Parker promptly stepped out of the taxi.

Delighted to be of service to you, Sir Julian, he said; take my taxi. I am
going down to Craven Street myself, but Im in no hurry. Pray make use of the
cab.

Its extremely kind of you, said the surgeon. I am ashamed

Thats all right, said Parker, cheerily. I can wait. He assisted Freke
into the taxi. What number? 24 Russell Square, driver, and look sharp.

The taxi drove off. Parker remounted the stairs and rang Lord Peters bell.

Thanks, old man, he said. Ill stop the night, after all.

Come in, said Wimsey.

Did you see that? asked Parker.

I saw something. What happened exactly?

Parker told his story. Frankly, he said, Ive been thinking you a bit mad,
but now Im not quite so sure of it.

Peter laughed.

Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. Bunter, Mr. Parker
will stay the night. 202

Look here, Wimsey, lets have another look at this business. Wheres that
letter?

Lord Peter produced Bunters essay in dialogue. Parker studied it for a short
time in silence.

You know, Wimsey, Im as full of objections to this idea as an egg is of
meat.

Som I, old son. Thats why I want to dig up our Chelsea pauper. But trot out
your objections.

Well

Well, look here, I dont pretend to be able to fill in all the blanks myself.
But here we have two mysterious occurrences in one night, and a complete chain
connecting the one with another through one particular person. Its beastly,
but its not unthinkable.

Yes, I know all that. But there are one or two quite definite stumbling-
blocks.

Yes, I know. But, see here. On the one hand, Levy disappeared after being
last seen looking for Prince of Wales Road at nine oclock. At eight next
morning a dead man, not unlike him in general outline, is discovered in a bath
in Queen Caroline Mansions. Levy, by Frekes own admission, was going to see
Freke. By information received from Chelsea workhouse a dead man, answering to
the description of the Battersea corpse in its natural state, was delivered
that same day to Freke. We have Levy with a past, and no future, as it were;
an unknown vagrant with a future (in the cemetery) and no past, and Freke
stands between their future and their past.

That looks all right 203

Yes. Now, further: Freke has a motive for getting rid of Levyan old
jealousy.

Very oldand not much of a motive.

People have been known to do that sort of thing.[D] Youre thinking that
people dont keep up old jealousies for twenty years or so. Perhaps not. Not
just primitive, brute jealousy. That means a word and a blow. But the thing
that rankles is hurt vanity. That sticks. Humiliation. And weve all got a
sore spot we dont like to have touched. Ive got it. Youve got it. Some
blighter said hell knew no fury like a woman scorned. Stickin it on to women,
poor devils. Sex is every mans loco spotyou neednt fidget, you know its
truehell take a disappointment, but not a humiliation. I knew a man once
whod been turned downnot too charitablyby a girl he was engaged to. He
spoke quite decently about her. I asked what had become of her. Oh, he said,
she married the other fellow. And then burst outcouldnt help himself.
Lord, yes! he cried. To think of itjilted for a Scotchman! I dont know
why he didnt like Scots, but that was what got him on the raw. Look at Freke.
Ive read his books. His attacks on his antagonists 204 are savage. And hes a
scientist. Yet he cant bear opposition, even in his work, which is where any
first-class man is most sane and open-minded. Do you think hes a man to take
a beating from any man on a side-issue? On a mans most sensitive side-issue?
People are opinionated about side-issues, you know. I see red if anybody
questions my judgment about a book. And Levywho was nobody twenty years
agoromps in and carries off Frekes girl from under his nose. It isnt the
girl Freke would bother aboutits having his aristocratic nose put out of
joint by a little Jewish nobody.

Theres another thing. Frekes got another side-issue. He likes crime. In
that criminology book of his he gloats over a hardened murderer. Ive read it,
and Ive seen the admiration simply glaring out between the lines whenever he
writes about a callous and successful criminal. He reserves his contempt for
the victims or the penitents or the men who lose their heads and get found
out. His heroes are Edmond de la Pommerais, who persuaded his mistress into
becoming an accessory to her own murder, and George Joseph Smith of Brides-in-
a-bath fame, who could make passionate love to his wife in the night and carry
out his plot to murder her in the morning. After all, he thinks conscience is
a sort of vermiform appendix. Chop it out and youll feel all the better.
Freke isnt troubled by the usual conscientious deterrent. Witness his own
hand in his books. Now again. The man who went to Levys house in his place
knew the house: Freke knew the house; he was a red-haired 205 man, smaller
than Levy, but not much smaller, since he could wear his clothes without
appearing ludicrous: you have seen Frekeyou know his heightabout five-foot-
eleven, I suppose, and his auburn mane; he probably wore surgical gloves:
Freke is a surgeon; he was a methodical and daring man: surgeons are obliged
to be both daring and methodical. Now take the other side. The man who got
hold of the Battersea corpse had to have access to dead bodies. Freke
obviously had access to dead bodies. He had to be cool and quick and callous
about handling a dead body. Surgeons are all that. He had to be a strong man
to carry the body across the roofs and dump it in at Thippss window. Freke is
a powerful man and a member of the Alpine Club. He probably wore surgical
gloves and he let the body down from the roof with a surgical bandage. This
points to a surgeon again. He undoubtedly lived in the neighbourhood. Freke
lives next door. The girl you interviewed heard a bump on the roof of the end
house. That is the house next to Frekes. Every time we look at Freke, he
leads somewhere, whereas Milligan and Thipps and Crimplesham and all the other
people weve honoured with our suspicion simply led nowhere.

Yes; but its not quite so simple as you make out. What was Levy doing in
that surreptitious way at Frekes on Monday night?

Well, you have Frekes explanation.

Rot, Wimsey. You said yourself it wouldnt do.

Excellent. It wont do. Therefore Freke was lying. 206 Why should he lie
about it, unless he had some object in hiding the truth?

Well, but why mention it at all?

Because Levy, contrary to all expectation, had been seen at the corner of the
road. That was a nasty accident for Freke. He thought it best to be beforehand
with an explanationof sorts. He reckoned, of course, on nobodys ever
connecting Levy with Battersea Park.

Well, then, we come back to the first question: Why did Levy go there?

I dont know, but he was got there somehow. Why did Freke buy all those
Peruvian Oil shares?

I dont know, said Parker in his turn.

Anyway, went on Wimsey, Freke expected him, and made arrangements to let
him in himself, so that Cummings shouldnt see who the caller was.

But the caller left again at ten.

Oh, Charles! I did not expect this of you. This is the purest Suggery! Who
saw him go? Somebody said Good-night and walked away down the street. And
you believe it was Levy because Freke didnt go out of his way to explain that
it wasnt.

Dyou mean that Freke walked cheerfully out of the house to Park Lane, and
left Levy behinddead or alivefor Cummings to find?

We have Cummingss word that he did nothing of the sort. A few minutes after
the steps walked away from the house, Freke rang the library bell and told
Cummings to shut up for the night.

Then 207

Welltheres a side door to the house, I supposein fact, you know there
isCummings said sothrough the hospital.

Yeswell, where was Levy?

Levy went up into the library and never came down. Youve been in Frekes
library. Where would you have put him?

In my bedroom next door.

Then thats where he did put him.

But suppose the man went in to turn down the bed?

Beds are turned down by the housekeeper, earlier than ten oclock.

Yes.... But Cummings heard Freke about the house all night.

He heard him go in and out two or three times. Hed expect him to do that,
anyway.

Do you mean to say Freke got all that job finished before three in the
morning?

Why not?

Quick work.

Well, call it quick work. Besides, why three? Cummings never saw him again
till he called him for eight oclock breakfast.

But he was having a bath at three.

I dont say he didnt get back from Park Lane before three. But I dont
suppose Cummings went and looked through the bathroom keyhole to see if he was
in the bath.

Parker considered again.

How about Crimpleshams pince-nez? he asked. 208

That is a bit mysterious, said Lord Peter.

And why Thippss bathroom?

Why, indeed? Pure accident, perhapsor pure devilry.

Do you think all this elaborate scheme could have been put together in a
night, Wimsey?

Far from it. It was conceived as soon as that man who bore a superficial
resemblance to Levy came into the workhouse. He had several days.

I see.

Freke gave himself away at the inquest. He and Grimbold disagreed about the
length of the mans illness. If a small man (comparatively speaking) like
Grimbold presumes to disagree with a man like Freke, its because he is sure
of his ground.

Thenif your theory is soundFreke made a mistake.

Yes. A very slight one. He was guarding, with unnecessary caution, against
starting a train of thought in the mind of anybodysay, the workhouse doctor.
Up till then hed been reckoning on the fact that people dont think a second
time about anything (a body, say) thats once been accounted for.

What made him lose his head?

A chain of unforeseen accidents. Levys having been recognisedmy mothers
son having foolishly advertised in the _Times_ his connection with the
Battersea end of the mysteryDetective Parker (whose photograph has been a
little prominent in the illustrated press lately) seen sitting next door to
the 209 Duchess of Denver at the inquest. His aim in life was to prevent the
two ends of the problem from linking up. And there were two of the links,
literally side by side. Many criminals are wrecked by over-caution.

Parker was silent. 210

##  CHAPTER XI

A regular pea-souper, by Jove, said Lord Peter.

Parker grunted, and struggled irritably into an overcoat.

It affords me, if I may say so, the greatest satisfaction, continued the
noble lord, that in a collaboration like ours all the uninteresting and
disagreeable routine work is done by you.

Parker grunted again.

Do you anticipate any difficulty about the warrant? inquired Lord Peter.

Parker grunted a third time.

I suppose youve seen to it that all this business is kept quiet?

Of course.

Youve muzzled the workhouse people?

Of course.

And the police?

Yes.

Because, if you havent therell probably be nobody to arrest.

My dear Wimsey, do you think Im a fool?

I had no such hope.

Parker grunted finally and departed.

Lord Peter settled down to a perusal of his Dante. It afforded him no solace.
Lord Peter was hampered in his career as a private detective by a public-
school 211 education. Despite Parkers admonitions, he was not always able to
discount it. His mind had been warped in its young growth by Raffles and
Sherlock Holmes, or the sentiments for which they stand. He belonged to a
family which had never shot a fox.

I am an amateur, said Lord Peter.

Nevertheless, while communing with Dante, he made up his mind.

In the afternoon he found himself in Harley Street. Sir Julian Freke might be
consulted about ones nerves from two till four on Tuesdays and Fridays. Lord
Peter rang the bell.

Have you an appointment, sir? inquired the man who opened the door.

No, said Lord Peter, but will you give Sir Julian my card? I think it
possible he may see me without one.

He sat down in the beautiful room in which Sir Julians patients awaited his
healing counsel. It was full of people. Two or three fashionably dressed women
were discussing shops and servants together, and teasing a toy griffon. A big,
worried-looking man by himself in a corner looked at his watch twenty times a
minute. Lord Peter knew him by sight. It was Wintrington, a millionaire, who
had tried to kill himself a few months ago. He controlled the finances of five
countries, but he could not control his nerves. The finances of five countries
were in Sir Julian Frekes capable hands. By the fireplace sat a soldierly-
looking young man, of about Lord Peters own age. 212 His face was prematurely
lined and worn; he sat bolt upright, his restless eyes darting in the
direction of every slightest sound. On the sofa was an elderly woman of modest
appearance, with a young girl. The girl seemed listless and wretched; the
womans look showed deep affection, and anxiety tempered with a timid hope.
Close beside Lord Peter was another younger woman, with a little girl, and
Lord Peter noticed in both of them the broad cheekbones and beautiful grey,
slanting eyes of the Slav. The child, moving restlessly about, trod on Lord
Peters patent-leather toe, and the mother admonished her in French before
turning to apologize to Lord Peter.

Mais je vous en prie, madame, said the young man, it is nothing.

She is nervous, pauvre petite, said the young woman.

You are seeking advice for her?

Yes. He is wonderful, the doctor. Figure to yourself, monsieur, she cannot
forget, poor child, the things she has seen. She leaned nearer, so that the
child might not hear. We have escapedfrom starving Russiasix months ago. I
dare not tell youshe has such quick ears, and then, the cries, the
tremblings, the convulsionsthey all begin again. We were skeletons when we
arrivedmon Dieu!but that is better now. See, she is thin, but she is not
starved. She would be fatter but for the nerves that keep her from eating. We
who are older, we forgetenfin, on apprend  ne pas y penserbut these
children! 213 When one is young, monsieur, tout a impressionne trop.

Lord Peter, escaping from the thraldom of British good form, expressed himself
in that language in which sympathy is not condemned to mutism.

But she is much better, much better, said the mother, proudly; the great
doctor, he does marvels.

Cest un homme prcieux, said Lord Peter.

Ah, monsieur, cest un saint qui opre des miracles! Nous prions pour lui,
Natasha et moi, tous les jours. Nest-ce pas, chrie? And consider, monsieur,
that he does it all, ce grand homme, cet homme illustre, for nothing at all.
When we come here, we have not even the clothes upon our backswe are ruined,
famished. Et avec a que nous sommes de bonne famillemais hlas! monsieur, en
Russie, comme vous savez, a ne vous vaut que des insultesdes atrocits.
Enfin! the great Sir Julian sees us, he saysMadame, your little girl is very
interesting to me. Say no more. I cure her for nothingpour ses beaux yeux,
a-t-il ajout en riant. Ah, monsieur, cest un saint, un vritable saint! and
Natasha is much, much better.

Madame, je vous en flicite.

And you, monsieur? You are young, well, strongyou also suffer? It is still
the war, perhaps?

A little remains of shell-shock, said Lord Peter.

Ah, yes. So many good, brave, young men

Sir Julian can spare you a few minutes, my lord, if you will come in now,
said the servant.

Lord Peter bowed to his neighbour, and walked 214 across the waiting-room. As
the door of the consulting-room closed behind him, he remembered having once
gone, disguised, into the staff-room of a German officer. He experienced the
same feelingthe feeling of being caught in a trap, and a mingling of bravado
and shame.

He had seen Sir Julian Freke several times from a distance, but never close.
Now, while carefully and quite truthfully detailing the circumstances of his
recent nervous attack, he considered the man before him. A man taller than
himself, with immense breadth of shoulder, and wonderful hands. A face
beautiful, impassioned and inhuman; fanatical, compelling eyes, bright blue
amid the ruddy bush of hair and beard. They were not the cool and kindly eyes
of the family doctor, they were the brooding eyes of the inspired scientist,
and they searched one through.

Well, thought Lord Peter, I shant have to be explicit, anyhow.

Yes, said Sir Julian, yes. You had been working too hard. Puzzling your
mind. Yes. More than that, perhapstroubling your mind, shall we say?

I found myself faced with a very alarming contingency.

Yes. Unexpectedly, perhaps.

Very unexpected indeed.

Yes. Following on a period of mental and physical strain.

Wellperhaps. Nothing out of the way. 215

Yes. The unexpected contingency waspersonal to yourself?

It demanded an immediate decision as to my own actionsyes, in that sense it
was certainly personal.

Quite so. You would have to assume some responsibility, no doubt.

A very grave responsibility.

Affecting others besides yourself?

Affecting one other person vitally, and a very great number indirectly.

Yes. The time was night. You were sitting in the dark?

Not at first. I think I put the light out afterwards.

Quite sothat action would naturally suggest itself to you. Were you warm?

I think the fire had died down. My man tells me that my teeth were chattering
when I went in to him.

Yes. You live in Piccadilly?

Yes.

Heavy traffic sometimes goes past during the night, I expect.

Oh, frequently.

Just so. Now this decision you refer toyou had taken that decision.

Yes.

Your mind was made up?

Oh, yes.

You had decided to take the action, whatever it was. 216

Yes.

Yes. It involved perhaps a period of inaction.

Of comparative inactionyes.

Of suspense, shall we say?

Yesof suspense, certainly.

Possibly of some danger?

I dont know that that was in my mind at the time.

Noit was a case in which you could not possibly consider yourself.

If you like to put it that way.

Quite so. Yes. You had these attacks frequently in 1918?

YesI was very ill for some months.

Quite. Since then they have recurred less frequently?

Much less frequently.

Yeswhen did the last occur?

About nine months ago.

Under what circumstances?

I was being worried by certain family matters. It was a question of deciding
about some investments, and I was largely responsible.

Yes. You were interested last year, I think, in some police case?

Yesin the recovery of Lord Attenburys emerald necklace.

That involved some severe mental exercise?

I suppose so. But I enjoyed it very much.

Yes. Was the exertion of solving the problem attended by any bad results
physically? 217

None.

No. You were interested, but not distressed.

Exactly.

Yes. You have been engaged in other investigations of the kind?

Yes. Little ones.

With bad results for your health?

Not a bit of it. On the contrary. I took up these cases as a sort of
distraction. I had a bad knock just after the war, which didnt make matters
any better for me, dont you know.

Ah! you are not married?

No.

No. Will you allow me to make an examination? Just come a little nearer to
the light. I want to see your eyes. Whose advice have you had till now?

Sir James Hodges.

Ah! yeshe was a sad loss to the medical profession. A really great mana
true scientist. Yes. Thank you. Now I should like to try you with this little
invention.

Whats it do?

Wellit tells me about your nervous reactions. Will you sit here?

The examination that followed was purely medical. When it was concluded, Sir
Julian said:

Now, Lord Peter, Ill tell you about yourself in quite untechnical language

Thanks, said Peter, thats kind of you. Im an awful fool about long
words. 218

Yes. Are you fond of private theatricals, Lord Peter?

Not particularly, said Peter, genuinely surprised. Awful bore as a rule.
Why?

I thought you might be, said the specialist, drily. Well, now. You know
quite well that the strain you put on your nerves during the war has left its
mark on you. It has left what I may call old wounds in your brain. Sensations
received by your nerve-endings sent messages to your brain, and produced
minute physical changes therechanges we are only beginning to be able to
detect, even with our most delicate instruments. These changes in their turn
set up sensations; or I should say, more accurately, that sensations are the
names we give to these changes of tissue when we perceive them: we call them
horror, fear, sense of responsibility and so on.

Yes, I follow you.

Very well. Now, if you stimulate those damaged places in your brain again,
you run the risk of opening up the old wounds. I mean, that if you get nerve-
sensations of any kind producing the reactions which we call horror, fear, and
sense of responsibility, they may go on to make disturbance right along the
old channel, and produce in their turn physical changes which you will call by
the names you were accustomed to associate with themdread of German mines,
responsibility for the lives of your men, strained attention and the inability
to distinguish small sounds through the overpowering noise of guns. 219

I see.

This effect would be increased by extraneous circumstances producing other
familiar physical sensationsnight, cold or the rattling of heavy traffic, for
instance.

Yes.

Yes. The old wounds are nearly healed, but not quite. The ordinary exercise
of your mental faculties has no bad effect. It is only when you excite the
injured part of your brain.

Yes, I see.

Yes. You must avoid these occasions. You must learn to be irresponsible, Lord
Peter.

My friends say Im only too irresponsible already.

Very likely. A sensitive nervous temperament often appears so, owing to its
mental nimbleness.

Oh!

Yes. This particular responsibility you were speaking of still rests upon
you?

Yes, it does.

You have not yet completed the course of action on which you have decided?

Not yet.

You feel bound to carry it through?

Oh, yesI cant back out of it now.

No. You are expecting further strain?

A certain amount.

Do you expect it to last much longer?

Very little longer now. 220

Ah! Your nerves are not all they should be.

No?

No. Nothing to be alarmed about, but you must exercise care while undergoing
this strain, and afterwards you should take a complete rest. How about a
voyage in the Mediterranean or the South Seas or somewhere?

Thanks. Ill think about it.

Meanwhile, to carry you over the immediate trouble I will give you something
to strengthen your nerves. It will do you no permanent good, you understand,
but it will tide you over the bad time. And I will give you a prescription.

Thank you.

Sir Julian got up and went into a small surgery leading out of the consulting-
room. Lord Peter watched him moving aboutboiling something and writing.
Presently he returned with a paper and a hypodermic syringe.

Here is the prescription. And now, if you will just roll up your sleeve, I
will deal with the necessity of the immediate moment.

Lord Peter obediently rolled up his sleeve. Sir Julian Freke selected a
portion of his forearm and anointed it with iodine.

Whats that youre goin to stick into me. Bugs?

The surgeon laughed.

Not exactly, he said. He pinched up a portion of flesh between his finger
and thumb. Youve had this kind of thing before, I expect. 221

Oh, yes, said Lord Peter. He watched the cool fingers, fascinated, and the
steady approach of the needle. YesIve had it beforeand, dyou knowI dont
care frightfully about it.

He had brought up his right hand, and it closed over the surgeons wrist like
a vice.

The silence was like a shock. The blue eyes did not waver; they burned down
steadily upon the heavy white lids below them. Then these slowly lifted; the
grey eyes met the bluecoldly, steadilyand held them.

When lovers embrace, there seems no sound in the world but their own
breathing. So the two men breathed face to face.

As you like, of course, Lord Peter, said Sir Julian, courteously.

Afraid Im rather a silly ass, said Lord Peter, but I never could abide
these little gadgets. I had one once that went wrong and gave me a rotten bad
time. They make me a bit nervous.

In that case, replied Sir Julian, it would certainly be better not to have
the injection. It might rouse up just those sensations which we are desirous
of avoiding. You will take the prescription, then, and do what you can to
lessen the immediate strain as far as possible.

Oh, yesIll take it easy, thanks, said Lord Peter. He rolled his sleeve
down neatly. Im much obliged to you. If I have any further trouble Ill look
in again.

Dodo said Sir Julian, cheerfully. Only 222 make an appointment another
time. Im rather rushed these days. I hope your mother is quite well. I saw
her the other day at that Battersea inquest. You should have been there. It
would have interested you. 223

##  CHAPTER XII

The vile, raw fog tore your throat and ravaged your eyes. You could not see
your feet. You stumbled in your walk over poor mens graves.

The feel of Parkers old trench-coat beneath your fingers was comforting. You
had felt it in worse places. You clung on now for fear you should get
separated. The dim people moving in front of you were like Brocken spectres.

Take care, gentlemen, said a toneless voice out of the yellow darkness,
theres an open grave just hereabouts.

You bore away to the right, and floundered in a mass of freshly turned clay.

Hold up, old man, said Parker.

Where is Lady Levy?

In the mortuary; the Duchess of Denver is with her. Your mother is wonderful,
Peter.

Isnt she? said Lord Peter.

A dim blue light carried by somebody ahead wavered and stood still.

Here you are, said a voice.

Two Dantesque shapes with pitchforks loomed up.

Have you finished? asked somebody.

Nearly done, sir. The demons fell to work again with the pitchforksno,
spades. 224

Somebody sneezed. Parker located the sneezer and introduced him.

Mr. Levett represents the Home Secretary. Lord Peter Wimsey. We are sorry to
drag you out on such a day, Mr. Levett.

Its all in the days work, said Mr. Levett, hoarsely. He was muffled to the
eyes.

The sound of the spades for many minutes. An iron noise of tools thrown down.
Demons stooping and straining.

A black-bearded spectre at your elbow. Introduced. The Master of the
Workhouse.

A very painful matter, Lord Peter. You will forgive me for hoping you and Mr.
Parker may be mistaken.

I should like to be able to hope so too.

Something heaving, straining, coming up out of the ground.

Steady, men. This way. Can you see? Be careful of the gravesthey lie pretty
thick hereabouts. Are you ready?

Right you are, sir. You go on with the lantern. We can follow you.

Lumbering footsteps. Catch hold of Parkers trench-coat again. That you, old
man? Oh, I beg your pardon, Mr. Levettthought you were Parker.

Hullo, Wimseyhere you are.

More graves. A headstone shouldered crookedly aslant. A trip and jerk over the
edge of the rough grass. The squeal of gravel under your feet. 225

This way, gentlemen, mind the step.

The mortuary. Raw red brick and sizzling gas-jets. Two women in black, and Dr.
Grimbold. The coffin laid on the table with a heavy thump.

Ave you got that there screw-driver, Bill? Thank ee. Be keerful wi the
chisel now. Not much substance to these ere boards, sir.

Several long creaks. A sob. The Duchesss voice, kind but peremptory.

Hush, Christine. You mustnt cry.

A mutter of voices. The lurching departure of the Dante demonsgood, decent
demons in corduroy.

Dr. Grimbolds voicecool and detached as if in the consulting room.

Nowhave you got that lamp, Mr. Wingate? Thank you. Yes, here on the table,
please. Be careful not to catch your elbow in the flex, Mr. Levett. It would
be better, I think, if you came on this side. Yesyesthank you. Thats
excellent.

The sudden brilliant circle of an electric lamp over the table. Dr. Grimbolds
beard and spectacles. Mr. Levett blowing his nose. Parker bending close. The
Master of the Workhouse peering over him. The rest of the room in the enhanced
dimness of the gas-jets and the fog.

A low murmur of voices. All heads bent over the work.

Dr. Grimbold againbeyond the circle of the lamplight.

We dont want to distress you unnecessarily, Lady Levy. If you will just tell
us what to look forthe? 226 Yes, yes, certainlyandyesstopped with gold?
Yesthe lower jaw, the last but one on the right? Yesno teeth missingnoyes?
What kind of a mole? Yesjust over the left breast? Oh, I beg your pardon,
just underyesappendicitis? Yesa long oneyesin the middle? Yes, I quite
understanda scar on the arm? Yes, I dont know if we shall be able to find
thatyesany little constitutional weakness that might? Oh,
yesarthritisyesthank you, Lady Levythats very clear. Dont come unless I
ask you to. Now, Wingate.

A pause. A murmur. Pulled out? After death, you thinkwell, so do I. Where is
Dr. Colegrove? You attended this man in the workhouse? Yes. Do you recollect?
No? Youre quite certain about that? Yeswe mustnt make a mistake, you know.
Yes, but there are reasons why Sir Julian cant be present; Im asking _you_ ,
Dr. Colegrove. Well, youre certainthats all I want to know. Just bring the
light closer, Mr. Wingate, if you please. These miserable shells let the damp
in so quickly. Ah! what do you make of this? Yesyeswell, thats rather
unmistakable, isnt it? Who did the head? Oh, Frekeof course. I was going to
say they did good work at St. Lukes. Beautiful, isnt it, Dr. Colegrove? A
wonderful surgeonI saw him when he was at Guys. Oh, no, gave it up years
ago. Nothing like keeping your hand in. Ahyes, undoubtedly thats it. Have
you a towel handy, sir? Thank you. Over the head, if you pleaseI think we
might have another here. Now, Lady LevyI am going to ask you to look at 227 a
scar, and see if you recognise it. Im sure you are going to help us by being
very firm. Take your timeyou wont see anything more than you absolutely
must.

Lucy, dont leave me.

No, dear.

A space cleared at the table. The lamplight on the Duchesss white hair.

Oh, yesoh, yes! No, noI couldnt be mistaken. Theres that funny little
kink in it. Ive seen it hundreds of times. Oh, LucyReuben!

Only a moment more, Lady Levy. The mole

II think sooh, yes, that is the very place.

Yes. And the scarwas it three-cornered, just above the elbow?

Yes, oh, yes.

Is this it?

Yesyes

I must ask you definitely, Lady Levy. Do you, from these three marks identify
the body as that of your husband?

Oh! I must, mustnt I? Nobody else could have them just the same in just
those places? It is my husband. It is Reuben. Oh

Thank you, Lady Levy. You have been very brave and very helpful.

ButI dont understand yet. How did he come here? Who did this dreadful
thing?

Hush, dear, said the Duchess; the man is going to be punished. 228

Oh, buthow cruel! Poor Reuben! Who could have wanted to hurt him? Can I see
his face?

No, dear, said the Duchess. That isnt possible. Come awayyou mustnt
distress the doctors and people.

Nonotheyve all been so kind. Oh, Lucy!

Well go home, dear. You dont want us any more, Dr. Grimbold?

No, Duchess, thank you. We are very grateful to you and to Lady Levy for
coming.

There was a pause, while the two women went out, Parker, collected and
helpful, escorting them to their waiting car. Then Dr. Grimbold again:

I think Lord Peter Wimsey ought to seethe correctness of his deductionsLord
Petervery painfulyou may wish to seeyes, I was uneasy at the
inquestyesLady Levyremarkably clear evidenceyesmost shocking caseah,
heres Mr. Parkeryou and Lord Peter Wimsey entirely justifieddo I really
understand? Really? I can hardly believe itso distinguished a manas you
say, when a great brain turns to crimeyeslook here! Marvellous
workmarvelloussomewhat obscured by this time, of coursebut the most
beautiful sectionshere, you see, the left hemisphereand herethrough the
corpus striatumhere againthe very track of the damage done by the
blowwonderfulguessed itsaw the effect of the blow as he struck it, you
knowah, I should like to see _his_ brain, Mr. Parkerand to think
thatheavens, Lord Peter, you dont know what a blow you have struck at the
whole 229 professionthe whole civilized world! Oh, my dear sir! Can you ask
me? My lips are sealed of courseall our lips are sealed.

The way back through the burial ground. Fog again, and the squeal of wet
gravel.

Are your men ready, Charles?

They have gone. I sent them off when I saw Lady Levy to the car.

Who is with them?

Sugg.

Sugg?

Yespoor devil. Theyve had him up on the mat at headquarters for bungling
the case. All that evidence of Thippss about the night club was corroborated,
you know. That girl he gave the gin-and-bitters to was caught, and came and
identified him, and they decided their case wasnt good enough, and let Thipps
and the Horrocks girl go. Then they told Sugg he had overstepped his duty and
ought to have been more careful. So he ought, but he cant help being a fool.
I was sorry for him. It may do him some good to be in at the death. After all,
Peter, you and I had special advantages.

Yes. Well, it doesnt matter. Whoever goes wont get there in time. Suggs as
good as another.

But Suggan experience rare in his careerwas in time.

Parker and Lord Peter were at 110 Piccadilly. Lord Peter was playing Bach and
Parker was reading Origen when Sugg was announced. 230

Weve got our man, sir, said he.

Good God! said Peter. Alive?

We were just in time, my lord. We rang the bell and marched straight up past
his man to the library. He was sitting there doing some writing. When we came
in, he made a grab for his hypodermic, but we were too quick for him, my lord.
We didnt mean to let him slip through our hands, having got so far. We
searched him thoroughly and marched him off.

He is actually in gaol, then?

Oh, yessafe enoughwith two warders to see he doesnt make away with
himself.

You surprise me, Inspector. Have a drink.

Thank you, my lord. I may say that Im very grateful to youthis case was
turning out a pretty bad egg for me. If I was rude to your lordship

Oh, its all right, Inspector, said Lord Peter, hastily. I dont see how
you could possibly have worked it out. I had the good luck to know something
about it from other sources.

Thats what Freke says. Already the great surgeon was a common criminal in
the inspectors eyesa mere surname. He was writing a full confession when we
got hold of him, addressed to your lordship. The police will have to have it,
of course, but seeing its written for you, I brought it along for you to see
first. Here it is.

He handed Lord Peter a bulky document.

Thanks, said Peter. Like to hear it, Charles?

Rather.

Accordingly Lord Peter read it aloud. 231

##  CHAPTER XIII

Dear Lord PeterWhen I was a young man I used to play chess with an old friend
of my fathers. He was a very bad, and a very slow, player, and he could never
see when a checkmate was inevitable, but insisted on playing every move out. I
never had any patience with that kind of attitude, and I will freely admit now
that the game is yours. I must either stay at home and be hanged or escape
abroad and live in an idle and insecure obscurity. I prefer to acknowledge
defeat.

If you have read my book on Criminal Lunacy, you will remember that I wrote:
In the majority of cases, the criminal betrays himself by some abnormality
attendant upon this pathological condition of the nervous tissues. His mental
instability shows itself in various forms: an overweening vanity, leading him
to brag of his achievement; a disproportionate sense of the importance of the
offence, resulting from the hallucination of religion, and driving him to
confession; egomania, producing the sense of horror or conviction of sin, and
driving him to headlong flight without covering his tracks; a reckless
confidence, resulting in the neglect of the most ordinary precautions, as in
the case of Henry Wainwright, who left a boy in charge of the murdered womans
remains while he went to call a cab, or on the other 232 hand, a nervous
distrust of apperceptions in the past, causing him to revisit the scene of the
crime to assure himself that all traces have been as safely removed as _his
own judgment knows them to be_. I will not hesitate to assert that a perfectly
sane man, not intimidated by religious or other delusions, could always render
himself perfectly secure from detection, provided, that is, that the crime
were sufficiently premeditated and that he were not pressed for time or thrown
out in his calculations by purely fortuitous coincidence.

You know as well as I do, how far I have made this assertion good in practice.
The two accidents which betrayed me, I could not by any possibility have
foreseen. The first was the chance recognition of Levy by the girl in the
Battersea Park Road, which suggested a connection between the two problems.
The second was that Thipps should have arranged to go down to Denver on the
Tuesday morning, thus enabling your mother to get word of the matter through
to you before the body was removed by the police and to suggest a motive for
the murder out of what she knew of my previous personal history. If I had been
able to destroy these two accidentally forged links of circumstance, I will
venture to say that you would never have so much as suspected me, still less
obtained sufficient evidence to convict.

Of all human emotions, except perhaps those of hunger and fear, the sexual
appetite produces the most violent, and, under some circumstances, the most
persistent reactions; I think, however, I am 233 right in saying that at the
time when I wrote my book, my original sensual impulse to kill Sir Reuben Levy
had already become profoundly modified by my habits of thought. To the animal
lust to slay and the primitive human desire for revenge, there was added the
rational intention of substantiating my own theories for the satisfaction of
myself and the world. If all had turned out as I had planned, I should have
deposited a sealed account of my experiment with the Bank of England,
instructing my executors to publish it after my death. Now that accident has
spoiled the completeness of my demonstration, I entrust the account to you,
whom it cannot fail to interest, with the request that you will make it known
among scientific men, in justice to my professional reputation.

The really essential factors of success in any undertaking are money and
opportunity, and as a rule, the man who can make the first can make the
second. During my early career, though I was fairly well-off, I had not
absolute command of circumstance. Accordingly I devoted myself to my
profession, and contented myself with keeping up a friendly connection with
Reuben Levy and his family. This enabled me to remain in touch with his
fortunes and interests, so that, when the moment for action should arrive, I
might know what weapons to use.

Meanwhile, I carefully studied criminology in fiction and factmy work on
Criminal Lunacy was a side-product of this activityand saw how, in every
murder, the real crux of the problem was the 234 disposal of the body. As a
doctor, the means of death were always ready to my hand, and I was not likely
to make any error in that connection. Nor was I likely to betray myself on
account of any illusory sense of wrong-doing. The sole difficulty would be
that of destroying all connection between my personality and that of the
corpse. You will remember that Michael Finsbury, in Stevensons entertaining
romance, observes: What hangs people is the unfortunate circumstance of
guilt. It became clear to me that the mere leaving about of a superfluous
corpse could convict nobody, provided that nobody was guilty in connection
_with that particular corpse_. Thus the idea of substituting the one body for
the other was early arrived at, though it was not till I obtained the
practical direction of St. Lukes Hospital that I found myself perfectly
unfettered in the choice and handling of dead bodies. From this period on, I
kept a careful watch on all the material brought in for dissection.

My opportunity did not present itself until the week before Sir Reubens
disappearance, when the medical officer at the Chelsea workhouse sent word to
me that an unknown vagrant had been injured that morning by the fall of a
piece of scaffolding, and was exhibiting some very interesting nervous and
cerebral reactions. I went round and saw the case, and was immediately struck
by the mans strong superficial resemblance to Sir Reuben. He had been heavily
struck on the back of the neck, dislocating the fourth and fifth cervical
vertebrae and heavily bruising the 235 spinal cord. It seemed highly unlikely
that he could ever recover, either mentally or physically, and in any case
there appeared to me to be no object in indefinitely prolonging so
unprofitable an existence. He had obviously been able to support life until
recently, as he was fairly well nourished, but the state of his feet and
clothing showed that he was unemployed, and under present conditions he was
likely to remain so. I decided that he would suit my purpose very well, and
immediately put in train certain transactions in the City which I had already
sketched out in my own mind. In the meantime, the reactions mentioned by the
workhouse doctor were interesting, and I made careful studies of them, and
arranged for the delivery of the body to the hospital when I should have
completed my preparations.

On the Thursday and Friday of that week I made private arrangements with
various brokers to buy the stock of certain Peruvian Oil-fields, which had
gone down almost to waste-paper. This part of my experiment did not cost me
very much, but I contrived to arouse considerable curiosity, and even a mild
excitement. At this point I was of course careful not to let my name appear.
The incidence of Saturday and Sunday gave me some anxiety lest my man should
after all die before I was ready for him, but by the use of saline injections
I contrived to keep him alive and, late on Sunday night, he even manifested
disquieting symptoms of at any rate a partial recovery.

On Monday morning the market in Peruvians opened briskly. Rumours had
evidently got about 236 that somebody knew something, and this day I was not
the only buyer in the market. I bought a couple of hundred more shares in my
own name, and left the matter to take care of itself. At lunch time I made my
arrangements to run into Levy accidentally at the corner of the Mansion House.
He expressed (as I expected) his surprise at seeing me in that part of London.
I simulated some embarrassment and suggested that we should lunch together. I
dragged him to a place a bit off the usual beat, and there ordered a good wine
and drank of it as much as he might suppose sufficient to induce a
confidential mood. I asked him how things were going on Change. He said, Oh,
all right, but appeared a little doubtful, and asked me whether I did
anything in that way. I said I had a little flutter occasionally, and that, as
a matter of fact, Id been put on to rather a good thing. I glanced round
apprehensively at this point, and shifted my chair nearer to his.

I suppose you dont know anything about Peruvian Oil, do you? he said.

I started and looked round again, and leaning across to him, said, dropping my
voice:

Well, I do, as a matter of fact, but I dont want it to get about. I stand to
make a good bit on it.

But I thought the thing was hollow, he said; it hasnt paid a dividend for
umpteen years.

No, I said, it hasnt, but its going to. Ive got inside information. He
looked a bit unconvinced, and I emptied off my glass, and edged right up to
his ear. 237

Look here, I said, Im not giving this away to everyone, but I dont mind
doing you and Christine a good turn. You know, Ive always kept a soft place
in my heart for her, ever since the old days. You got in ahead of me that
time, and now its up to me to heap coals of fire on you both.

I was a little excited by this time, and he thought I was drunk.

Its very kind of you, old man, he said, but Im a cautious bird, you know,
always was. Id like a bit of proof.

And he shrugged up his shoulders and looked like a pawnbroker.

Ill give it to you, I said, but it isnt safe here. Come round to my place
tonight after dinner, and Ill show you the report.

How dyou get hold of it? said he.

Ill tell you tonight, said I. Come round after dinnerany time after nine,
say.

To Harley Street? he asked, and I saw that he meant coming.

No, I said, to BatterseaPrince of Wales Road; Ive got some work to do at
the hospital. And look here, I said, dont you let on to a soul that youre
coming. I bought a couple of hundred shares today, in my own name, and people
are sure to get wind of it. If were known to be about together, someonell
twig something. In fact, its anything but safe talking about it in this
place.

All right, he said, I wont say a word to anybody. 238 Ill turn up about
nine oclock. Youre sure its a sound thing?

It cant go wrong, I assured him. And I meant it.

We parted after that, and I went round to the workhouse. My man had died at
about eleven oclock. I had seen him just after breakfast, and was not
surprised. I completed the usual formalities with the workhouse authorities,
and arranged for his delivery at the hospital at about seven oclock.

In the afternoon, as it was not one of my days to be in Harley Street, I
looked up an old friend who lives close to Hyde Park, and found that he was
just off to Brighton on some business or other. I had tea with him, and saw
him off by the 5.35 from Victoria. On issuing from the barrier it occurred to
me to purchase an evening paper, and I thoughtlessly turned my steps to the
bookstall. The usual crowds were rushing to catch suburban trains home, and on
moving away I found myself involved in a contrary stream of travellers coming
up out of the Underground, or bolting from all sides for the 5.45 to Battersea
Park and Wandsworth Common. I disengaged myself after some buffeting and went
home in a taxi; and it was not till I was safely seated there that I
discovered somebodys gold-rimmed pince-nez involved in the astrakhan collar
of my overcoat. The time from 6.15 to seven I spent concocting something to
look like a bogus report for Sir Reuben.

At seven I went through to the hospital, and found the workhouse van just
delivering my subject at the 239 side door. I had him taken straight up to the
theatre, and told the attendant, William Watts, that I intended to work there
that night. I told him I would prepare the body myselfthe injection of a
preservative would have been a most regrettable complication. I sent him about
his business, and then went home and had dinner. I told my man that I should
be working in the hospital that evening, and that he could go to bed at 10.30
as usual, as I could not tell whether I should be late or not. He is used to
my erratic ways. I only keep two servants in the Battersea housethe man-
servant and his wife, who cooks for me. The rougher domestic work is done by a
charwoman, who sleeps out. The servants bedroom is at the top of the house,
overlooking Prince of Wales Road.

As soon as I had dined I established myself in the hall with some papers. My
man had cleared dinner by a quarter past eight, and I told him to give me the
syphon and tantalus; and sent him downstairs. Levy rang the bell at twenty
minutes past nine, and I opened the door to him myself. My man appeared at the
other end of the hall, but I called to him that it was all right, and he went
away. Levy wore an overcoat with evening dress and carried an umbrella. Why,
how wet you are! I said. How did you come? By bus, he said, and the
fool of a conductor forgot to put me down at the end of the road. Its pouring
cats and dogs and pitch-darkI couldnt see where I was. I was glad he hadnt
taken a taxi, but I had rather reckoned on his not doing so. 240 Your little
economies will be the death of you one of these days, I said. I was right
there, but I hadnt reckoned on their being the death of me as well. I say
again, I could not have foreseen it.

I sat him down by the fire, and gave him a whisky. He was in high spirits
about some deal in Argentines he was bringing off the next day. We talked
money for about a quarter of an hour and then he said:

Well, how about this Peruvian mares-nest of yours?

Its no mares-nest, I said; come and have a look at it.

I took him upstairs into the library, and switched on the centre light and the
reading lamp on the writing table. I gave him a chair at the table with his
back to the fire, and fetched the papers I had been faking, out of the safe.
He took them, and began to read them, poking over them in his short-sighted
way, while I mended the fire. As soon as I saw his head in a favourable
position I struck him heavily with the poker, just over the fourth cervical.
It was delicate work calculating the exact force necessary to kill him without
breaking the skin, but my professional experience was useful to me. He gave
one loud gasp, and tumbled forward on to the table quite noiselessly. I put
the poker back, and examined him. His neck was broken, and he was quite dead.
I carried him into my bedroom and undressed him. It was about ten minutes to
ten when I had finished. I put him away under my bed, which had been turned
down for the night, and cleared up the papers in the 241 library. Then I went
downstairs, took Levys umbrella, and let myself out at the hall door,
shouting Good-night loudly enough to be heard in the basement if the
servants should be listening. I walked briskly away down the street, went in
by the hospital side door, and returned to the house noiselessly by way of the
private passage. It would have been awkward if anybody had seen me then, but I
leaned over the back stairs and heard the cook and her husband still talking
in the kitchen. I slipped back into the hall, replaced the umbrella in the
stand, cleared up my papers there, went up into the library and rang the bell.
When the man appeared I told him to lock up everything except the private door
to the hospital. I waited in the library until he had done so, and about 10.30
I heard both servants go up to bed. I waited a quarter of an hour longer and
then went through to the dissecting-room. I wheeled one of the stretcher
tables through the passage to the house door, and then went to fetch Levy. It
was a nuisance having to get him downstairs, but I had not liked to make away
with him in any of the ground-floor rooms, in case my servant should take a
fancy to poke his head in during the few minutes that I was out of the house,
or while locking up. Besides, that was a flea-bite to what I should have to do
later. I put Levy on the table, wheeled him across to the hospital and
substituted him for my interesting pauper. I was sorry to have to abandon the
idea of getting a look at the latters brain, but I could not afford to incur
suspicion. It was still rather early, so I knocked down a 242 few minutes
getting Levy ready for dissection. Then I put my pauper on the table and
trundled him over to the house. It was now five past eleven, and I thought I
might conclude that the servants were in bed. I carried the body into my
bedroom. He was rather heavy, but less so than Levy, and my Alpine experience
had taught me how to handle bodies. It is as much a matter of knack as of
strength, and I am, in any case, a powerful man for my height. I put the body
into the bednot that I expected anyone to look in during my absence, but if
they should they might just as well see me apparently asleep in bed. I drew
the clothes a little over his head, stripped, and put on Levys clothes, which
were fortunately a little big for me everywhere, not forgetting to take his
spectacles, watch and other oddments. At a little before half-past eleven I
was in the road looking for a cab. People were just beginning to come home
from the theatre, and I easily secured one at the corner of Prince of Wales
Road. I told the man to drive me to Hyde Park Corner. There I got out, tipped
him well, and asked him to pick me up again at the same place in an hours
time. He assented with an understanding grin, and I walked on up Park Lane. I
had my own clothes with me in a suitcase, and carried my own overcoat and
Levys umbrella. When I got to No. 9A there were lights in some of the top
windows. I was very nearly too early, owing to the old mans having sent the
servants to the theatre. I waited about for a few minutes, and heard it strike
the quarter past midnight. 243 The lights were extinguished shortly after, and
I let myself in with Levys key.

It had been my original intention, when I thought over this plan of murder, to
let Levy disappear from the study or the dining-room, leaving only a heap of
clothes on the hearth-rug. The accident of my having been able to secure Lady
Levys absence from London, however, made possible a solution more misleading,
though less pleasantly fantastic. I turned on the hall light, hung up Levys
wet overcoat and placed his umbrella in the stand. I walked up noisily and
heavily to the bedroom and turned off the light by the duplicate switch on the
landing. I knew the house well enough, of course. There was no chance of my
running into the man-servant. Old Levy was a simple old man, who liked doing
things for himself. He gave his valet little work, and never required any
attendance at night. In the bedroom I took off Levys gloves and put on a
surgical pair, so as to leave no tell-tale finger-prints. As I wished to
convey the impression that Levy had gone to bed in the usual way, I simply
went to bed. The surest and simplest method of making a thing appear to have
been done is to do it. A bed that has been rumpled about with ones hands, for
instance, never looks like a bed that has been slept in. I dared not use
Levys brush, of course, as my hair is not of his colour, but I did everything
else. I supposed that a thoughtful old man like Levy would put his boots handy
for his valet, and I ought to have deduced that he would fold up his clothes.
That was a mistake, but not an important one. Remembering 244 that well-
thought-out little work of Mr. Bentleys, I had examined Levys mouth for
false teeth, but he had none. I did not forget, however, to wet his tooth-
brush.

At one oclock I got up and dressed in my own clothes by the light of my own
pocket torch. I dared not turn on the bedroom lights, as there were light
blinds to the windows. I put on my own boots and an old pair of goloshes
outside the door. There was a thick Turkey carpet on the stairs and hall-
floor, and I was not afraid of leaving marks. I hesitated whether to chance
the banging of the front door, but decided it would be safer to take the
latchkey. (It is now in the Thames. I dropped it over Battersea Bridge the
next day.) I slipped quietly down, and listened for a few minutes with my ear
to the letter-box. I heard a constable tramp past. As soon as his steps had
died away in the distance I stepped out and pulled the door gingerly to. It
closed almost soundlessly, and I walked away to pick up my cab. I had an
overcoat of much the same pattern as Levys, and had taken the precaution to
pack an opera hat in my suitcase. I hoped the man would not notice that I had
no umbrella this time. Fortunately the rain had diminished for the moment to a
sort of drizzle, and if he noticed anything he made no observation. I told him
to stop at 50 Overstrand Mansions, and I paid him off there, and stood under
the porch till he had driven away. Then I hurried round to my own side door
and let myself in. It was about a quarter to 245 two, and the harder part of
my task still lay before me.

My first step was so to alter the appearance of my subject as to eliminate any
immediate suggestion either of Levy or of the workhouse vagrant. A fairly
superficial alteration was all I considered necessary, since there was not
likely to be any hue-and-cry after the pauper. He was fairly accounted for,
and his deputy was at hand to represent him. Nor, if Levy was after all traced
to my house, would it be difficult to show that the body in evidence was, as a
matter of fact, not his. A clean shave and a little hair-oiling and manicuring
seemed sufficient to suggest a distinct personality for my silent accomplice.
His hands had been well washed in hospital, and though calloused, were not
grimy. I was not able to do the work as thoroughly as I should have liked,
because time was getting on. I was not sure how long it would take me to
dispose of him, and moreover, I feared the onset of _rigor mortis_ , which
would make my task more difficult. When I had him barbered to my satisfaction,
I fetched a strong sheet and a couple of wide roller bandages, and fastened
him up carefully, padding him with cotton wool wherever the bandages might
chafe or leave a bruise.

Now came the really ticklish part of the business. I had already decided in my
own mind that the only way of conveying him from the house was by the roof. To
go through the garden at the back in this soft wet weather was to leave a
ruinous trail behind us. To carry a dead man down a suburban street in 246 the
middle of the night seemed outside the range of practical politics. On the
roof, on the other hand, the rain, which would have betrayed me on the ground,
would stand my friend.

To reach the roof, it was necessary to carry my burden to the top of the
house, past my servants room, and hoist him out through the trap-door in the
box-room roof. Had it merely been a question of going quietly up there myself,
I should have had no fear of waking the servants, but to do so burdened by a
heavy body was more difficult. It would be possible, provided that the man and
his wife were soundly asleep, but if not, the lumbering tread on the narrow
stair and the noise of opening the trap-door would be only too plainly
audible. I tiptoed delicately up the stair and listened at their door. To my
disgust I heard the man give a grunt and mutter something as he moved in his
bed.

I looked at my watch. My preparations had taken nearly an hour, first and
last, and I dared not be too late on the roof. I determined to take a bold
step and, as it were, bluff out an alibi. I went without precaution against
noise into the bathroom, turned on the hot and cold water taps to the full and
pulled out the plug.

My household has often had occasion to complain of my habit of using the bath
at irregular night hours. Not only does the rush of water into the cistern
disturb any sleepers on the Prince of Wales Road side of the house, but my
cistern is afflicted with peculiarly loud gurglings and thumpings, while
frequently 247 the pipes emit a loud groaning sound. To my delight, on this
particular occasion, the cistern was in excellent form, honking, whistling and
booming like a railway terminus. I gave the noise five minutes start, and
when I calculated that the sleepers would have finished cursing me and put
their heads under the clothes to shut out the din, I reduced the flow of water
to a small stream and left the bathroom, taking good care to leave the light
burning and lock the door after me. Then I picked up my pauper and carried him
upstairs as lightly as possible.

The box-room is a small attic on the side of the landing opposite to the
servants bedroom and the cistern-room. It has a trap-door, reached by a
short, wooden ladder. I set this up, hoisted up my pauper and climbed up after
him. The water was still racing into the cistern, which was making a noise as
though it were trying to digest an iron chain, and with the reduced flow in
the bathroom the groaning of the pipes had risen almost to a hoot. I was not
afraid of anybody hearing other noises. I pulled the ladder through on to the
roof after me.

Between my house and the last house in Queen Caroline Mansions there is a
space of only a few feet. Indeed, when the Mansions were put up, I believe
there was some trouble about ancient lights, but I suppose the parties
compromised somehow. Anyhow, my seven-foot ladder reached well across. I tied
the body firmly to the ladder, and pushed it over till the far end was resting
on the parapet of the opposite house. Then I took a short run across the
cistern-room 248 and the box-room roof, and landed easily on the other side,
the parapet being happily both low and narrow.

The rest was simple. I carried my pauper along the flat roofs, intending to
leave him, like the hunchback in the story, on someones staircase or down a
chimney. I had got about half-way along when I suddenly thought, Why, this
must be about little Thippss place, and I remembered his silly face, and his
silly chatter about vivisection. It occurred to me pleasantly how delightful
it would be to deposit my parcel with him and see what he made of it. I lay
down and peered over the parapet at the back. It was pitch-dark and pouring
with rain again by this time, and I risked using my torch. That was the only
incautious thing I did, and the odds against being seen from the houses
opposite were long enough. One seconds flash showed me what I had hardly
dared to hopean open window just below me.

I knew those flats well enough to be sure it was either the bathroom or the
kitchen. I made a noose in a third bandage that I had brought with me, and
made it fast under the arms of the corpse. I twisted it into a double rope,
and secured the end to the iron stanchion of a chimney-stack. Then I dangled
our friend over. I went down after him myself with the aid of a drain-pipe and
was soon hauling him in by Thippss bathroom window.

By that time I had got a little conceited with myself, and spared a few
minutes to lay him out prettily and make him shipshape. A sudden inspiration
suggested 249 that I should give him the pair of pince-nez which I had
happened to pick up at Victoria. I came across them in my pocket while I was
looking for a penknife to loosen a knot, and I saw what distinction they would
lend his appearance, besides making it more misleading. I fixed them on him,
effaced all traces of my presence as far as possible, and departed as I had
come, going easily up between the drain-pipe and the rope.

I walked quietly back, re-crossed my crevasse and carried in my ladder and
sheet. My discreet accomplice greeted me with a reassuring gurgle and thump. I
didnt make a sound on the stairs. Seeing that I had now been having a bath
for about three-quarters of an hour, I turned the water off, and enabled my
deserving domestics to get a little sleep. I also felt it was time I had a
little myself.

First, however, I had to go over to the hospital and make all safe there. I
took off Levys head, and started to open up the face. In twenty minutes his
own wife could not have recognised him. I returned, leaving my wet goloshes
and mackintosh by the garden door. My trousers I dried by the gas stove in my
bedroom, and brushed away all traces of mud and brickdust. My paupers beard I
burned in the library.

I got a good two hours sleep from five to seven, when my man called me as
usual. I apologized for having kept the water running so long and so late, and
added that I thought I would have the cistern seen to.

I was interested to note that I was rather extra 250 hungry at breakfast,
showing that my nights work had caused a certain wear-and-tear of tissue. I
went over afterwards to continue my dissection. During the morning a
peculiarly thick-headed police inspector came to inquire whether a body had
escaped from the hospital. I had him brought to me where I was, and had the
pleasure of showing him the work I was doing on Sir Reuben Levys head.
Afterwards I went round with him to Thippss and was able to satisfy myself
that my pauper looked very convincing.

As soon as the Stock Exchange opened I telephoned my various brokers, and by
exercising a little care, was able to sell out the greater part of my Peruvian
stock on a rising market. Towards the end of the day, however, buyers became
rather unsettled as a result of Levys death, and in the end I did not make
more than a few hundreds by the transaction.

Trusting I have now made clear to you any point which you may have found
obscure, and with congratulations on the good fortune and perspicacity which
have enabled you to defeat me, I remain, with kind remembrances to your
mother,

Yours very truly,  
Julian Freke

_Post-Scriptum_ : My will is made, leaving my money to St. Lukes Hospital,
and bequeathing my body to the same institution for dissection. I feel sure
that my brain will be of interest to the scientific world. As I shall die by
my own hand, I imagine that there 251 may be a little difficulty about this.
Will you do me the favour, if you can, of seeing the persons concerned in the
inquest, and obtaining that the brain is not damaged by an unskilful
practitioner at the post-mortem, and that the body is disposed of according to
my wish?

By the way, it may be of interest to you to know that I appreciated your
motive in calling this afternoon. It conveyed a warning, and I am acting upon
it in spite of the disastrous consequences to myself. I was pleased to realize
that you had not underestimated my nerve and intelligence, and refused the
injection. Had you submitted to it, you would, of course, never have reached
home alive. No trace would have been left in your body of the injection, which
consisted of a harmless preparation of strychnine, mixed with an almost
unknown poison, for which there is at present no recognised test, a
concentrated solution of sn

At this point the manuscript broke off.

Well, thats all clear enough, said Parker.

Isnt it queer? said Lord Peter. All that coolness, all those brainsand
then he couldnt resist writing a confession to show how clever he was, even
to keep his head out of the noose.

And a very good thing for us, said Inspector Sugg, but Lord bless you, sir,
these criminals are all alike.

Frekes epitaph, said Parker, when the Inspector had departed. What next,
Peter? 252

I shall now give a dinner party, said Lord Peter, to Mr. John P. Milligan
and his secretary and to Messrs. Crimplesham and Wicks. I feel they deserve it
for not having murdered Levy.

Well, dont forget the Thippses, said Mr. Parker.

On no account, said Lord Peter, would I deprive myself of the pleasure of
Mrs. Thippss company. Bunter!

My lord?

The Napoleon brandy.

##  FOOTNOTES

[A] This is the first Florence edition, 1481, by Niccolo di Lorenzo. Lord
Peters collection of printed Dantes is worth inspection. It includes, besides
the famous Aldine 8vo. of 1502, the Naples folio of 1477edizione rarissima,
according to Colomb. This copy has no history, and Mr. Parkers private belief
is that its present owner conveyed it away by stealth from somewhere or other.
Lord Peters own account is that he picked it up in a little place in the
hills, when making a walking-tour through Italy.

[B] Lord Peters wits were wool-gathering. The book is in the possession of
Earl Spencer. The Brocklebury copy is incomplete, the last five signatures
being altogether missing, but is unique in possessing the colophon.

[C] Apollonios Rhodios. Lorenzobodi Alopa. Firenze. 1496. (4to.) The
excitement attendant on the solution of the Battersea Mystery did not prevent
Lord Peter from securing this rare work before his departure for Corsica.

[D] Lord Peter was not without authority for his opinion: With respect to the
alleged motive, it is of great importance to see whether there was a motive
for committing such a crime, or whether there was not, or whether there is an
improbability of its having been committed so strong as not to be overpowered
by positive evidence. But _if there be any motive which can be assigned, I am
bound to tell you that the inadequacy of that motive is of little importance_.
We know, from the experience of criminal courts, that atrocious crimes of this
sort have been committed from very slight motives; _not merely from malice and
revenge_ , but to gain a small pecuniary advantage, and to drive off for a
time pressing difficulties.L. C. J. Campbell, summing up in Reg. v. Palmer,
Shorthand Report, p. 308 C. C. C., May, 1856, Sess. Pa. 5. (Italics mine. D.
L. S.)

    
    
    